What you want to be selected, in Dodoma you are in which country?
On 28th of 28th, 2014.

In one of the newspapers reports of every English day in the country it has been reported, that the cost of living in Dodoma, according to the research of the newspaper, two hundred thousand shillings for member of parliament are enough to pay a driver and another amount you can set free.

And sure, they require research to understand this fact, then I have arrived in Dodoma more than 10 times but I have never used more than 50 thousand shillings to the house of visitors' houses, and the morning it is taking the tea time and usually get married, do not stop fruits.

Now in Dodoma where our members of parliament are Dodoma of which country?

On my view, that two hundred thousand in the day could be reduced and it's only one hundred and a half years we are enough to see what I made a committee to discuss the allowances that I made, that we will make me see me.

And so, these members of the Council of Constitution, where they came from not their work, it means that their salaries has been suspended for 70 days but if they are continuing to receive their salaries by truly that they see their work in Dodoma.

It is the great honor he was given by one hundred and a half years it would be enough and even if they were able to meet some of the days they are doing so that they do so, so as to show their patriotism in their countries that they were born with Eucharist.
In this few hours, I am happy about the problem in the field of Arusha, it needs to be very important because we believe in the ethics of socialism and self-reliance because we believe in the community and that many people make a committee to fight for the plans of contributing to the constitution of the country.
I hope that I've not been appointed to this parliament we have run to be a great honor, that he was appointed to go to Dodoma even with his fare, and a half one hundred and a half years he would have received him to vote.
And it has come at a time, we look at the possibility of members of parliament to get their votes, when they came from.

And we have been so, for parliamentary work, it will not be a solution to those who want to register it, but it will be a work of the hearts of the hearts of the Tanzanians to serve the citizens.

For sure, for our members of parliament to continue losing time to discuss the allowances and regulations that have not been done until now, it is to continue losing time for the work where citizens we expected to go to Dodoma to discuss and pass the second draft of the constitution with the thoughts of citizens.
I don't know if there are many youths who want to know, that even if they will go to Dodoma for 90 minutes, that is why it gets an average of one hour and for presuming they will do ten o'clock in the day from Monday until Sunday.
Therefore, I believe in my accounts, I see the truth that even the 90 days will not be enough, the committee will make sure that the parliament will not be seen in parliament, it will decide to work on the sections of that draft and even put new procedures.
Because, we should be a long debate.
If you will avoid this, which basically it is a shame to the nation, if we will put wisdom and wisdom and more by making public interests, and not the private sector, groups or political parties.
