
The secret of a house of 50 million shillings not to marry each other.
The owner has explained how it does not tire us with the area where it does not lie without his house but he will give the orphaned children 'Siri ya Mtungi'.
Jackline Masimba, Mwananchi Communications, @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam City, a house which is claimed to have worth more than 50 million shillings that is in the northern region, Kibamba, in the ward of Kwembe and Kinondoni Municipality, have been trying to break his hand after its owner, John Maranga requested for them to have orphaned children.
That house is among 250 out of the 400 people that were kidnapped from the High Court after the owner of that area, Henry Tandau won the case.
Previously, that area had a conflict between Kashimba and Shaghala Baamar and his 10 colleagues.
Markhiya, who was communicating with Kashimba after getting information that his house will face off, he requested him to wait for him to talk and when he arrived for the house to be given to the poor or orphans that are unable.
"Since yesterday I'm talking to an old man, that is not true, I thank me, I thank me when I arrived here I met with him, instead of what can take it as a school, then he will use it as a school or house of teachers," said Marusu.
He said he got a problem to build that house and a lot of problems that even so, he did not expect that.
"This house is testifying on my life, if it is not true that I will be able to see you so that I will be satisfied with me, if I will be satisfied that I will not be satisfied so that the project does not affect so," he said.
Kashgar, he accepted the request by Marimo and said that he will do with him in an ancient attack so as to agree on how to help others.
"I have decided to stop his house which he does not recognize that, he told me since yesterday he sees me, and I am happy and I don't listen to him and I wouldn't listen to him and I don't listen to him and I don't listen to him and I don't listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will listen to him and I will
Apart from that house, Kashimba has also left more than 50 houses without stopping each other after serving the others requesting to buy areas that they build for the second time instead of losing all the cost of construction.
"Elder Yusuf asked so much to think that he does not defend my house, I met it just on this area where he has used a lot of money more than 30 million shillings," was heard, Yusuph Juma bidding farewell.
Also, there are some of the citizens in accordance with their houses that he does not affect the law and instead let him leave each other.
I wish you the release of my house I will break it, "said Cosmas Mwaifani.
However, Kashimba did not want to listen to her instead he was heard saying, "I will be forced to see your house in the whole area," said Teacher Marcelina Kimario to see the house in the whole area, "said Teacher Marcelina Kimario when he was unable to see her," I request for you to see my iron sheets. "
Kashimba has asked him to urge his youth that had gone using the air to stop that house.
Another resident of the area who identified himself by the name Rose, was seen to bid farewell to him and requested him to remain at his house.
"The father should have luck and the soul of us, the house I have been able to build their problems, I was doughing, I was Nuzulack Dausen and Mlenda so that I get my homes."
He was heard, the mother comes out and saddened her, "I have decided to inform us of your iron sheets, but my house can't leave where I would do where I would do where I will take them," explained the mother.
The chief executive officer of Kisarawe District, Simon Siro has said in his area, more than 60 houses have been broken into and more than 150 citizens have not broken down.
"I was not a report on the break of these houses in Kashimba, I was not seen in my office because he has never come up with a person that I would like to know if the owner of this area is Shaw.
The councilor of Kwembe and Dimwa, said that demolition has affected more than 200 households and now they are doing a procedure to look for food and tents while they continue to look for the way to help them to get their copyrights.
