
Many Kenyans have peace in America and we are communicating with the movements of hostility.
For a long time we have launched our country without building a nation of Kenya, we are supposed to realize that the nation but there's no nation.
In the social media, the community has dug well politics and politicians have condemned the Kenyans in wanting the Kenyans to get out of tribalism.
The debate on social media did not lead paper, issues but feelings of transmitting news between Mount Kenya, Nyanza.
You can't give an opinion without members of the government, when he praised the Uhuru Kenyatta, is reported to be careful, put him a gift to him and the holy martyr.
At the same time, a beautiful lady of Dominica has praised the Cheketua 'party has been reported to be noted that Raila has never been a president.
Aaron Nanyaro, they want to see that she's not happy and that she continues with Diamond.
Politics of worship politicians have been dangerous and increase tribalism among many Kenyans.
Kenyans have tried to think.
Friends we should leave a tribalism, we build our nation in Kenya.
Joel Nanauka speaking, the University of Mashada stadium.
It should be remembered after the government passing the safety of the security, we have no problem but to put our hope in court.
It will be good for the opposition side to announce the citizens by heading to court to oppose the pass of that song.
It is surprising that the members of Diamond is supposed to have a fast rate of passing the song.
That tells you the concept that there are things that do not think about or else they don't have been fast if we are not less than what we won.
I hope that the court will be given a chance to investigate that problem and decided that you're being involved in our constitution or not.
Hillary Shoo.
A company is supposed to be accountable for several months, electricity lines have been tested in a bridge to go to football in Ngara district, Nairobi.
Switching off the organizations is to kill democracy, it is being close to the building of Staford, which is the center of important activities of the electricity distribution company in the country (KP).
Listen to me, many employees of that company goes through the bridge that is every time.
This happens through main lines of doughing up to the level of reaching one people without doubt, reduce the image of the virtues that drive out and just care of the company.
I cannot make sure again, this company does not have the government to remove more than 500 organizations from the list of non-governmental organizations that have been registered.
A resident magistrate, George, the University of Mount Kenya, Kisukuru.
The late Kenyans have been able to rectify those lines and later it will be able to give his name.
Heaven is a friend, Nairobi.
Hope, their properties will be similar to the news that was released recently about the state of poverty in the country, it gave them the real chapter of how things were so as.
It shows a half that many Kenyans live in poverty.
In the country there are few people who have not affected the property and stop others when they are in a bad state.
Many of them do not have wealth through corruption and among them poor eyesight.
The strategies of enabling development is same in every area and every Kenyan is that will enable the existence of equality in the country.
His soul in Nairobi.
The environment used in the media have been on the front line to ensure the completion of the roads of the Ethiopian Airlines, Nairobi, especially the hospital's road.
Though the owners of vehicles have reduced, the environment have reduced, a environment has begun to complain.
Some of the friends of living is about getting married with a flowers at the front of the national national hospital of Kenyatta.
Today, bees who depend on the flowers to the tourism sector led by one shop in that hospital when they are forced to get both buyers and snacks.
It is my opinion that this hospital is to rise up other flowers so that they can be able to look for people for the punishment for bees.
Heaven is a friend, Nairobi.
Congratulations Minister Kraehenbuehl has said without doubt, the school and the students according to the results of the exams are blaming and they curb some of the pupils.
The Minister of Education, Jacob Masaudi, deserves to increase in efforts in efforts.
If efforts in efforts are not ready to be involved in a student in extra activities in school like sports, acting, and so on.
It is because some of the schools that were mentioned to be listed in mind, did not have many years ago.
To be listed like another life of life like the ability to cooperate with other human beings at work and in the community in general.
His soul in Nairobi.
