
The way he got in the health in the sky.
In an event's speech, the His Worship the Mayor, "Aurier has been discovered to have heard a lot of things that are not living in the country because that is following and serving the system in the country.
"His Worship the Mayor," it is a period where he caused students who were taken as "the tomorrow's leaders" they can use to see the problems that are facing the system of supervision and looking for solutions.
Every time politicians and other activists were seen to use the issue of freedom to fight against the constitutional constitution, illegal immigrants in the same way, the citizens received the problem of traveling a long time to look for treatment in one hospital that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave of the appeal that could be buried in the grave
Those who doesn't know the industries of every kind involves itself in the farming sector, he bought their farms and gave the host the national schools which would have given their children an opportunity in form one and to ease the parents to give them those opportunities.
He added that those services have been brought closer to wildlife and reduce the cost of traveling to elsewhere.
However, those citizens have not seen to see that every administration system comes up and its challenges which take a long time to get a long time, will enable them to get rid of the workers that are supposed to be paid by the leadership that are not supposed to be paid through their salaries that has increased the cost of life.
Malalami, just for the time of lack of enough distribution to meet the cause of the mud that he had not been reached in the ongoing development.
Health is one of the issues that he stopped by wearing the Lord in his work.
The mayor of Chanjamjawiri town region led by Mayor Suwedi, we see the way the health sector is very important so that it should not be signed, but the current government is faced with a lot of challenges facing the health department under the system of ethics.
The City Hospital in the area have been faced with a shortage of in the 8few drugs that are available is very expensive.
The hospital workers are given Swahili promises that drug trafficking are being transported and soon, they arrived at the Hanang province, to give them hope for the patients they were given, "said Doctor Somba, to give them hope for the patients only.
Muhimbili National Hospital does not even look for rumors on the poem of the employees of the hospital who had been paid a half.
Lack of water in that hospital has left hospital in a bad state and threatened to cause malaria diseases.
Those problems facing the health sector and other sectors in the city of Charea, are required to stimulate the number of employees of the city and resignation from some people.
The official launch that is facing the health sector in the city of Charea, the area is at the end of the state of issues in the local government.
As a result of criminal Investigation that is in providing money to he said, which takes a long time, some of the hospitals in the hospital is unacceptable, even if drugs are not available in the hospital, it is expected to buy drugs because they are not available in hospitals.
There are some of the streets that they did not get workers at the following time, providing services to give services that are supposed to be released for free and are continuing with challenges.
How do you know for free though the money should be used to buy smoking, cotton, diggers and other equipment are not found in the same time and he is wrong, "the honorable mayor" is a threat to the government to kick in the health sector.
