
A taste of the grave of the attempt to be shaken.
After the rains that were witnessed in the heroes' day, October 20 to be forgotten, the high level is the citizens to continue the construction of the nation.
All the debate that were unblocked by the journalists, historians, scholars and other stakeholders about the ones that have dropped for the real heroes who were fighting for freedom, for now, it is supposed to be forgotten in each one.
There is no doubt that we should be heard from the government or the Ministry of Sports and Turnbull.
I believe in this issue to get married which until now she has not got the answer, about where he bought the Black Sailor.
The uncertainty over where it seems to take a matter when I remember it is because he was given to the Maaculky, who was the leader of the Mau Mau fighters.
Many debate has been following the burial, since independence, while the government that have been taking advantage of the authority passed it, or take it more easily, while this issue has emerged, especially during the heroes' celebrations.
The government of the late Mzee Jomo Kenyatta has been used that it did not want to put in mind the issue of where he had gone into the field because he stopped a question of injured by those insurgents.
According to the book Dumu has been appointed by Mrs Asha Ambassador Seif 'Imebaki Story.'
A total of those leaders, in partnership with the England authorities have condemned some cases of investigators who wanted to be buried in the Maasais', which is believed to be buried in the Kamara Church, after death in 1956 by the police officers.
Another evidence of land has proved not to be responsible for the government authorities, as explained by Ibanda Relini area in Kinyagigi, who in the article he wrote in Nyamkazi Primary School, where he is not true, but it is seen that something that made the authority and his predecessor.
At the time of the government of Mister MOI, this issue even the issue is seen to be completely forgotten, because those who were seen to be presented to the relevant authorities being taken as outlined in the revolutionary government.
At the moment, the fate of recognition of the grave of the man is not known, and that may be completely forgotten if the administration of Diamond will not give them hard to solve.
Read or annamatinde @ gmail.
