Among others say we have talked to you and we have talked about the ten minutes when you do not get married, when you do not get married, how do you register myself when I decided to talk about, your voice has been found.
Because of the right time he comes from.
When you go to the Almighty God, I will answer you if I said when she said, when he said, when I went to you, then I did not see you, then I am just like you, and the other young man will continue to be there.
For minerals.
To sit alone until he is not happy about?
Because you can be able to give me this order after the game.
Who's a nominated member of parliament who I was talking with him being close to me, then let me know what does not love me or then it does not know what is happening in other parts of it is wine.
When a man let me since I was born and one of them is successful since there is many.
Once you have already been living with life?
However, that is why we do this day until I stopped there.
They are continuing with life that will be there in front of Tanzania, it may be very close to how many Swahili do not want to talk to return.
Then the life of the school will go a total or they finished you so as to go?
And this thing of I register myself to you know that they love this stage.
It's not like to tell them that they are like a day that you agreed to think that she didn't know what to run away.
Some of Ongea will lead God, I register myself.
The model of a tree does not loose the fees but I have also heard the late God but I did not come out, I did not tell me, he told me.
Now let me ask you to come, let me ask you.
You are doing what to choose the water you are doing?
Your statement I don't know you like I was shocked and we were shocked and we came from the past, but I am happy and then I was lucky to know if you were unable to know if you were unable to know if you failed.
Do you have to take him in the whole day until when those whom I get their night, the truth of God and.
Then you have decided to decided your life and it is getting you my son asked me.
Until you know this time there are Miss human beings, life is not only to play for that life and it is possible that you don't know here and say you don't know the life of tomorrow I would like to ask you, even when he loves you, he didn't want him to know your life.
And more.
However, those pictures will begin to be demolished quickly.
Stew.
The late God bless you even these days I have asked, you know his actual event in this media like I have left us and this is where we are among free and this was a place.
If you go to the farm, then the main bus will be able to agree with their one day and you give you the phone you want to go and see what I heard this Sunday, I will come up and to show it is just a long time.
A bonus that the right to come with that Mister your wife, Diana Edward, is supposed to see if I'm in my life and you brought a argument that allows you to see him and I'm in him, it did not see him, it was not attractive to them.
Welcome me, I know you know what we say do not stop yourself.
