

Employees to asking for JPM.
In Dar es Salaam City, while the world's employees celebrating the day of May first today, their colleagues in Tanzania have called for President John Magufuli a load of 10 things that believe in life, to reduce accidents and bring success at work.
Those statements have been issued one day before President Magufuli's participation in the first time in that commemoration in Dodoma town where there is no reason of the promises of his predecessor, Jakaya Kikwete of improving their interests.
At different times, President Magufuli has attained six months while at the State House this week, he has been promising to improve the lives of employees by reducing the amount of income tax for workers, to increase salaries and control employment of visitors through special operation.
Speaking to our reporter yesterday, the Deputy Secretary General of the Federation of Workers of Tanzania Association (Tucta) Hezron Kaaya said that through those commemorations they are depending on the answers of the various topics that will involve workers in the country.
First of first, Kaaya said the least being under the employee for now is being given to 750,000 shillings so as to put the income and cost of life, therefore if they need to fight against corruption, it must be presented to employees' salaries in the country.
"The second issue is to connect social security fund so that we can have one fund of public funds and another of the private sector in order to eliminate complaints happening to the retired."
However, the head of relations and communication unit of the Social Security Regulatory Authority (SSRA), Sarah Kibonde said that the discussion of joining the funds have already started in the previous steps and that the issue needs participation of the government, employers and workers saying the talks with those sides have started.
"It is same as preparations to cook food, that is still very delicious.
Apart from that, Kaaya requested President Magufuli to control and protect their employment opportunities including the visitors' Kaaya, he spoke to ghost workers and to advise the government to end the challenge by checking its source.
"There are many workers that were allocated work but they did not expect to report because of the bad environment, its salaries being open and causes the loopholes to ghost workers," he said.
The fourth issue, Kaaya said that he is expecting President Magufuli through his government, he will put an environment of protecting local employment because the law of employment control to the visitors did not work, so he would like to hear the statement of the head of the country.
About the issue of reducing the salaries of leaders of organizations, that leader of workers was in the decision saying the president was supposed to break their contracts to start afresh.
"Haazu taking advantage of that increase, they discussed with the board, when they discussed with the board, you can't reach the place, you can't reach the place, but if he has seen it is a problem, he was supposed to break their contracts," he said.
Kaaya mentioned the sixth issue in the ministry concerned with issues of employment of the budget for the purpose of meeting various employment challenges as the chairman of Tanzania Railways Limited (Trachu), Mussa Kalala, he said apart from those issues, he wants President Magufuli to reduce the amount of income tax to the workers from 12 to nine percent so as to reduce their employee.
Already President Magufuli has said he is expecting to reduce that tax up to being Tarime, one billion so as to reduce the burden to the employee and instead use other revenue sources.
"Another thing is that the government is required to get a debt to the Social Security Fund to be able to get their money, an average of 50 percent of the national debt resulted from the loans of that fund, its results being unable to operate, for example GEPF," he said.
The analysis of economic issues have been advising the level of salaries not to stop the real situation of the current needs in the environment where the government is expecting to use the main criterion to climb the cost of life so as to check the new standards of salaries.
Professor Humphrey speaking at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), he said together with preventing ghost workers, to control ghost workers and save taxes paid by President Magufuli is required to reduce high costs of ministers because they can pay electricity and water for their salaries.
The research research on economic issues, has also advised to form an instrument to supervise the salaries of the public sector and to start the salaries of salaries that will increase salaries for its workers.
