
For 30 years for example we are.

It has been written by me.

It has been published today, 18th September 2016.

A second shop, Rashid Mohamed (32), who is a resident of Chanika in Dar es Salaam, has been sentenced to 30 years in prison after being found guilty of the old child of 13 years.

While reading the judgment yesterday, at the District Court of Ilala, the senior resident magistrate, Juma Hassan said that the court has been impressed by the evidence that was given by the prosecution.
He said that the charges brought a six witnesses who were able to bring to the court without stopping.
Before the release of that judgment, the government lawyer, Grace Mwanga urged the court to give a stern warning to be a lesson to all those with bad behavior like that which does not affect the community.
It is alleged that the Catholic church will be forced to go to a shop to buy a iron sheets and leaving with him going to his home where they living with that child for 45 days.
That child is also said that he was participating in the activity of selling second-hand clothes to home because the defendant is alleged that December 15, last year, areas of Chanika in Ilala district, will be able to answer the age of 13 years while knowing that it is legal.
At the same time the two residents of Gongo la Mboto, Samuel Frank (25), Fatuma Salum (25), Siraji Salum who has been promoted to the dock at Ilala District Court facing two different charges including fingers.
The boxers entered the court yesterday before the resident magistrate, Wilfredy has said that in the first charges he is facing Frank Kibiki that he will answer the 15 year old child against the law.
He claimed that in a period and that is not known, this year at the Gongo la Mboto area, I will answer that child and caused her severe pain, something that is against the law.
In the second charges he involves itself in the case number 158 of the year 2016, it was claimed that in a long time and that is expected to be played in September this year when it was is known in September this year when it was known in September this year when it was known in September this year that is believed to be believed to have drugs and enable them to implement violence to the child.
The people were forced to vote and returned home for failing to fail the conditions of bail.
The case hearing will resume on September 29, this year.
