CCM, parliamentary-finals of Arusha.
October 5th, 2015.

During the campaign heading to the general elections that will take place on October 25th this year at seven constituencies in Arusha province, they are candidates of two CCM party members and councilors (Ukawa) who have been given a great opportunity to win for council membership and parliamentary positions in those regions.
CCM members will be the party of political parties "in Arusha province for a long time since the start of many parties' system in the beginning of the year 1990 and they have been unable to boycott the court in different positions.
The report of the political situation shows that the parliament of Ukawa can win three constituencies in Arusha town, Karatu and Arumeru East, while CCM can lead in Ngorongoro and Longido regions to go down here.
More information indicate that although the new party of ACT Patriots Party has stopped his candidates in those positions and they are not given a big chance to win.
The Arusha town region.
The political reports show that between the political competitiveness between the candidates of the party in Arusha town where the member of parliament of Arusha town where the member of parliament of Arusha town where the member of parliament of CCM, Philemon Mollel has signed up with CCM candidate, Philemon Mollel.
Up to now, it shows Lema still has a great importance to the citizens of Arusha who have been involved in his campaign meetings but being carried out by the ones of the union of parties that make up the Citizens Constitution (Ukawa).
On the side of Mollel, although his campaign has not attracted many voters for that candidate by using their worry, he has been doing his campaigns by doing many internal meetings like young people, food vendors and other groups to look for votes.
Lema in his campaign has been campaigning that he has failed to fulfill some of his promises due to facing various obstacles including a case to oppose the results of his victory in the year 2010 and also carried out by the leaders in implementing its responsibilities.
"In a period of leadership it should be remembered that I was in a case for the whole year 2011 and I was chosen to vie for a parliamentary seat before the Court of Appeal came into power in the year 2013 and for two years, I was outside the scope of politics," said Lema in an interview with this newspaper.
Lema explains that, even so, together with the challenges that their parents have been able to implement a big part of its promises as the construction of modern, mother and child health, construction of tarmac roads in Arusha town and buy a vehicle for patients.
"But I will also write a lot of building a stable institution, will help the citizens of Arusha who now have been an example of the change in the whole of Tanzania," he said.
On his part, Mollel has told him that he will win for a landslide win for that election to bid farewell to the Arusha region in the CCM ticket by educating citizens an opportunity for development that they had lost for five years to elect Lema.
I have insisted that Lema has never done anything here in Arusha, his promise he did not implement even one of me I promise that I will be given a chance to be a member of parliament I will change Arusha and reduce economic, political and community, "Masau boasted.
Eastern Arumeru and West.
Joshua Nassari (Ukawa) who is vying for his seat after getting in parliament in the year 2012 following a repeat election after the death of the former member of parliament of that constituency, Jeryson (MB), was born by the opposition from John Pallaghe because of CCM.
The report from that constituency explained that Nassari has a big possibility of winning that region, although there is a small gap of votes due to several reasons including being unable to implement some of his promises.
Among those promise is that the land conflicts facing the Arumeru district for a long time whereby a large section of land in that district is owned by investors and private individuals.
The efforts of getting Joshua together with his opponent Pallaghe did not be able to succeed, even so, more information say that together with the challenge, Nassari can win as a result of huge problems inside CCM due to a high level of opinion polls in that party.
"The wall of the members of CCM in the time of the process of the opinion polls was William Mganga Ngeleja, who believe that the camp had not been paid by the district leaders and the victory of Pallidum and the votes were not bad," claims one of the party members in that district.
