These are self-employed.
First, let me say one thing that it is not eight laws the end of development.
Now, what is at eight hours in every human being is that when they were forced the community reserve it's running that it will be treated alone.
But the?
But the?
After touching on us here to protect.
After the law without a mother is.
When he arrived, who before giving him the responsibilities, I have been able to bring back the responsibilities that I have been able to bring up itself in the community sector because that money can be able to choose good people, contribute to Elias Kwesi.
However you came out.
Very few sentences you will know that very much and small-scale farmers, maize have gotten themselves in a system that does not be put before you so that we can say it is development because they can't say it is development because they can say it's development.
This law has been expected to break all the people who are in good pictures when I will be the development of that community was very little up until now, it is still a problem that causes the laws that had been placed on claims that every person's system has been done on how to mention the hospital.
If he is continuing to say that they did not have town together with that some of the bags has opened up and that even if the bacteria are there in our sector.
They can do.
I request to read the process that is in the system that makes the information given by these people to enter this system, it is clear that there is still a very big job to do there and then in Tanga town you ask ourselves that I have banned the law and then for the community reserve there are not otherwise, it cannot go back to Dar.
So as to Mafinga is your day that you are doing every day, if the secretary is called a person who is because a person can contribute directly and that a person is owned by people living in addition to someone who is owned and to live together.
It is something a week and it's a week.
It is true that.
Now, that law is going so much and when the law is a long time that will be able to give them to Malawi, I feel that I can watch this budget with another eye, therefore, everyone can get development, but we cannot get development, but we cannot be able to hear.
Mandla claimed that she is holding eight and up to now the huge payments compared to this years which has brought a lot of contributing to find freedom Park and being no responsibility.
Now, it is a probability that you have not seen in the law for the two thousand year and eight years to resolve conflicts which are in the reserve fund of higher education sector in the community and social security sector.
First.
It is told that there is legal measures.
But also, they will also be allowed to do so.
He said as a result of violating the law.
One of the road accidents for responsibilities or work.
Researchers have praised it is to ensure that it becomes guidance and instructions on the growth of IT.
It was a park.
And in that union now, it is that I did not depend on so on my behalf.
Again.
We should narrate to you this opportunity, TANESCO won and this for these hours together with that the goal was to ignore the competition with a big man up to these hours undoubtedly it was thrown out, you know that ten percent of the ten hours when the others should be given.
And there is a problem.
To say that you find you the probability that you want to be forced for you for your God?
Now if a person has worked with this, so that they can get the right time to you, you can't understand the same time because it does not have problems but sometimes the government does not have problems but sometimes the government has been quoted in this day so as to go through a day so as to get a lot for challenges that are there.
We request another people not to be paid in times that they face.
Nine of the park.
Because the child said, it is the presence of shivered.
Welcome him at the hall where I have gone down.
He cannot be happy, I want to start to go to work.
According to the concept, it's saying that this person will be given to his interests, his interests by scoring it will be made when he was found and went to another fund that he has told them.
It will be remembered?
