
Madenge doesn't miss five things that do not want to know about Ndeki.
There is no thing that is unacceptable, in the world of Luda if the news of leaving or conflicts of the couple.
Two weeks ago they released a good week in the White House, the scandal of Beyonce and her husband J Z while a woman was mentioned for the name Baamar with the chief player.
In the Tiwa Savage's saga is adorned with Billionaire Ross Perrot and Tee Billz as he was greeted by the name of "Ambassador Al Mana."
That name is among many other things that Tee Billz posted in his phone with his wife, when he made investigation but he refused to make corrections.
Tee Billz as he started that scandal by putting up different posts on the Instagram page, he is accusing his wife to make her love with different men including Don Jazzy, Doctor Sainy and 2 points.
He has also praised his wife in witchcraft in collaboration with his mother.
Finally, he went to suicide.
Although later he went back and asked me that he wrote therefore, due to the killing of thoughts, a series of events recently shows that that was there in a bad state.
When you stop smoking cigarettes, there is possible Tee Billz as he wanted to be supported by the community, but it has two sides.
It has been a rumor that Tiwa Savage is involved in such marriages, especially when they go to the life of a certain person, but a long time has been there to be a man about his wife.
It has ever been reported that the man attacked his wife in Ghana until he was arrested for several days.
He mentioned several songs in his album by Rhema Trust, as he is Beyonce, she sang several songs in his album that believes that it is not well in their marriage.
In giving the song Say Off ', this woman wants women to talk about their issues with transparency in order to reduce violence in the community.
In his new song he spoke about it for the song he made recently in collaboration with Doctor Sid, while thanking God for a step that he got the time when he was unable to do so as to avoid evil deeds.
That song, Iyanja has sent a picture about what is happening now is the results of what brought them behind for a long time.
He spoke about the death of ideas that were interviewed by BBC earlier this year when she was interviewed by the author's White House of England, he confessed to have a lot of ideas (SMS).
