He is the time of ACT Patriots.
Mr 25, 2015.

He didn't know that at the end, they have been the member of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) after announcing the delay of being sacked from the long-term conflict that started in which they were told by the parliamentary leaders to be a constitutional plot.
It was claimed that Zitto Kabwe and several others, including Professor Kitila Mkumbo and Samson Namibes to overturn the legal leadership of parliament although the suspects were looking at their plan as part of the democratic process.
The first efforts to suspend Zitto Kabwe got stuck on after that member of parliament, a young man that deals with the fight against corruption went to court at the beginning of last year.
A surprise judgment on March 10 has thrown out the request to Zitto Kabwe, from being given the right to be heard, he did not witness the right time so that Zitto Kabwe got to fight against illegal immigrants.
Zitto Kabwe, now has officially joined the ACT party, the union of constitutional changes, the party that he has been facing with it since was started and it is said that he is the founder and the sponsor of that party.
The big debate that is currently on the future of Zitto Zuberi Kabwe has said, he will continue to shine if he used to vie, a party that he joined with it as a young man of 16 years and participate in urine, blood and disadvantages of praising?
In another way the parliamentary debates on this issue has focused on about who was a great need for his fellow party (CCM) and one of its members (Zitto).
The answer to read this question may be found in few days in the next few days which will be very important in knowing the direction of the future of Zitto Kabwe as a politician and his new institution (ACT), as it is important for parliamentarians to know the effects of being left with one of his senior members.
Among those who discuss the issue of Zitto Kabwe, there are those who identified himself and he termed it with Messi of politics from Tanzania as a result of how he went with him and also for himself a long time from the party, again by consent, showing that she could not do otherwise.
The decision to pray for now, and not last year, the crisis started to give him a chance to participate in the debate on the Escrow scandal as the chairman of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC).
We follow up about the Escrow scandal, they will be careful, especially in parliamentary debates, which some of them know that there is a lot of misunderstanding and evidence used in reaching the resolutions taken by the Parliament and the members of the platform, the scholars know how to Zitto Zuberi to answer some of the issues.
It is also clear that the Escrow issue has been named to Zitto Kabwe, many political enemies who would like to witness this is in the country through his party's club or being involved with one scandal or another.
In the difference of a scholar, he mentioned above, there are people who brought up the old conflict of interests with the company of Zitto Zuberi Kabwe, a car he had at their stand together with the music artists of the new generation with the origin of Kigoma Rural Electrification Agency, claimed that he did not meet TANAPA with NSSF.
If they interviewed why Zitto Kabwe, who was the PAC Committee with the responsibility of inspecting itself on all public organizations, including these two, not to be called on that issue if it happened to three members, Professor Anna Tibaijuka, William Ngeleja and Andrew Chenge.
In my opinion, Zitto has praised the political party that was being used in addition from his former party members of parliament or due to his concerned party, in the Escrow scandal, including the possibility that she gets to the public on that issue or fear of passing its cleanliness.
To introduce himself to Zitto Zuberi to destroy the political victory, they have succeeded to see that politician who wanted to see that politician when he was chased from how to prevent their attackers.
On the side of ACT's side, it is clear that the party has now being left officially, as the Democratic Republic of Democratic (ADC) will be officially opened by Hamad Rashid, the member of parliament for Wawi constituency (CUF) when he officially announced officially joining the party.
If it's not the party's popularity since there was a result of the being involved with Zitto Kabwe, he also said that he was involved by Hamad who has a conflict with CUF.
