
A new constitution and being truthful that the country is Shafii Dauda, 2014.
I have heard that the name of a young man got a lot to look for the truth when he met this shop, "I saw here we will sell the truth."
In the shop, the truth is sold to 50 kilograms of price of the truth, same, same, the price of half months of the fact, but the shop does not write a price of the whole truth, because of the whole period of truth.
The young man asked, "we want to know the whole month, why do you have written the price?

"He said, you want to take a whole period of truth?" He asked the shop.

"Well," he gave me the young man.

"Then you have gone down here to tell me how the price is."
When he entered into the shop, the young man was told.
"The youth, we did not write a price, because the cost of the whole truth is that your life is still ready," the young man wanted to play the race behind he left dust and he was not ready to pay the cost of the whole truth.
Maybe the fact that you will ensure that a human being they can not be taught the few people unknown, Ukawa are able to bring productivity, joy and hope for many.
The author and philosopher Shaaban Robert is writing a lot of water, that I was waiting to have a sharp object in the same time, has become a very big conflict, but also serving her and everyone will not accept it and not it is said, otherwise, they are not reported, then they are not reported, they are not reported, then they are not reported, they are not reported, then they are not reported.
And we should be true that our country's meaning, there is no bad sin to a human being like dealing with the interests of the countries that were born and there is same as a woman who has been able to give him a life, a situation that had the ability to fulfill your life! "
It is happy to meet the cost of his death by saying the truth in your country is more than to live in your country, the last one is a great sin to a human being.
And to say my fact, the debate to start the process of getting a new constitution in our country is a good thing that President Jakaya Kikwete revealed openly that he would like to happen.
In the month of August it is close to the constitutional parliament it will meet again. It is now of the sides with the sides to finish their differences in the table of talks so as to ensure the process of getting a new constitution is going on.
I see the danger of our front.
This is not the time to think the names of the parties, the presidential candidates and the new constitution will enable them to get presidential or authority of the next 10 years, most of us mentioned to vie for the presidency will be outside of politics because our country will also be accountable if they get married and destruction.
We are not supposed to understand that leaders of political parties have a chance to sit together if we get the right time and eventually we will help us as the nation in the right time to get a new constitution.
Because we are going to now, this conflict of parties and members of parliament concerning the constitution cannot give the winner. All of us will fail as a nation. I conclude.

God bless TANZANIA.
