Fifth time.
That is a continuation of Friday programs.
Programs that I will give you the opportunity for caring for your national exams.
Services offered by the hospital and improvements.
Today's program to destroy the bill of hatching of technical services in Muhumbili National Hospital together with the department.
Directors of election services is one of the most important thing in Muhumbili National Hospital because of managing and to coordinate its treatment activities.
Director of separation with the department.
The department of transport.
The department of food services in the department of inspection and environment, the department of community development, we have also been involved, where I am not under one of the drugs that we have in the unit of masturbation.
Where this one is concerned with the manufacturing of all clothes is that after giving them sweating.
While other than the clothes they arrived at Muhimbili National Hospital.
This unit has a week of thirty seven workers who have sure that every day they are collecting clothes used to be demolished.
When those people have been decided back back, but we are searching for my clothes to go and see for all the clothes that are used by the workers in different sections including surgery rooms, the late God also threatens the blood because of the farm, the late God bless you and another one that offer special service to patients.
But also we have another unit to be a teaser?
This is very concerned in ensuring that our services we offer is given.
That patients cannot get infections or workers that use the meaning of nurses and other workers at the time.
And we have a different information that we are supposed to have this unit, including the services that are available in Dar es Salaam through a cleaning environment in a clean state and the situation that is known as God is known as well but also other things have been supervised by the unit.
We look at your home, I thank the Almighty God to make sure that they are using their problems they are doing so that their problems are annoyed so that we can improve you so that we can improve this service here in the hospital.
Some of the purpose of a building is the department of inspection, together with conservation of the internal environment because of his death through Saccos.
He said that it is holding all the activities of the minister which is to make sure that all patients have come to Muhimbili National Hospital because he is received well and they also help them due to their problems, that is their own problems and to make sure that even those who benefit from.
In addition to their human needs, the reason now has been forced to continue getting services as well as human needs, if they get married to change the ones that are able to come back to those who need to be assisted in things like them.
The department of transportation in implementing the responsibility of removing all equipment used in Muhumbili National Hospital so as to ensure that it becomes a clean and security situation so used to provide treatment to patients.
Purification of this through the steps.
Public is divided into form four areas.
Part of receiving the equipment which have been found.
Part of the farm, you will give you a solution to the equipment that have been used for the equipment that have been used.
A section of putting clean equipment and part of the place.
The punishment for selling equipment which are many giving them.
We know the purchase of cotton it is one of sending a customer service provider, that is a doctor or any nurse, who will enable you to provide services to the patient because they lead in inside the body of a human being.
If a customer has not been saying that and that meaning?
The doctor taking the thing that has been interpreted as Paul for corruption he is doing his work on freedom because that they have involved the concerned that they want to fulfill the infection of all inside the body of a human being.
.
