
Leaders are grateful to them problems.
By Luteni Selemani Semunyu.
It is headed to the high level since the country started to be implemented where some of him have been able to improve development.
And at the time when you start, it is good for the leaders in the country, he said that especially the banks to resolve the problems and challenges that are facing him, he said that before the year going to far.
It is something sad to see the leaders in that he said they are continuing with clean politics that can't help citizens, but they continue to bring development behind.
In the first year of the year, we saw many conflicts in some of the mud which he has been brought by bad politics and giving up of leadership.
The leadership regarding the citizens who has called to see a good leadership, leaders joined political parties, "Tenga has told me" politics should not talk about any benefits to the citizens.
I am saying that by considering the some of the citizens, he said that they have not been able to move forward, because of the conflict he brought to and giving up of money and leadership.
Although he said that he had a good opportunity to protect themselves, according to them, while some of the leaders get married, citizens continued to get a long time.
I hope that he could be dissolved, he could destroy the misunderstanding between him, he said that he will cause conflicts in development and I support him that he could destroy the performance of the he said because citizens need to see the fruits of their votes.
There is a rumor that some of the leaders in the county of Maasais' they want the leadership of he said that he didn't agree so that they can be able to avoid the occurrence of the disaster.
But a question is only one, because those leaders registered themselves in political politics, politics in order to deal, they did not know the results of their actions?
I believe that they have forgotten the meaning of being infected with work together without considering the one some of them are hopeful that I do not want to vote again.
The citizens were arrested with great expectations of development from them but instead they went to be competing in danger.
Maybe they deserve that because it would like it openly that you can't be trusted by the leadership because of their hands.
Moreover, they showed that it is private and that they come back to severe pain.
I will give your free advice to them, they should start looking for another job before the year going to far and especially because the economy is very expensive for now because I don't see you get married.
I have hope that when you are happening, there is a big lesson to others, to some of the representatives of the parliament and he said different from what they have got "a well for money."
If you don't know Swahili, "consider the chest and how he is."
I thank you to hear of the leaders that do not have honor to the citizens who came to them.
Instead of moving them well and to strengthen their lives, their work is to fight and be taught without any shame.
Now, it's turn for them to understand, they inform the midwives "by thinking that they will not be need again! Now they will benefit and eat the fruits of their hands.
While explaining how things were so that, it's not the only way that will destroy the procedures if leaders will not turn up with them.
He stated that the mosquito with a modem is faced with what is in the country where leaders for more than a year, their work was to listen to the some citizens supposed to give them the opportunity to strengthen the leaders they deserve to give them from the opportunity to strengthen the country for good people.
