
I was surprised by Wama, APR, 2016.

Who doesn't know the name of Magufuli usually do?

Few weeks ago announced that the head of SB Province, Anne Kilango Malecela, has been removed from his position as a result of not true, there was a question that I was asked by one of the people close to me. I was asked my opinion about that step of the president, first when I was the first Tanzanian.
The first one was very easy to answer that, I am not a lot even a little of "women if you can be able to be given an opportunity because the women are supposed to be given priority due to their sex leadership and not to be resolved because they are women.
Secondly, the second question, even so, it was required more explanation that she didn't speak from Kilango Malecela, from his presidential position, approximately three and a half weeks since he was appointed.
I heard an answer is that the first day he swore in the provincial heads, he urged the provincial heads, he gave them "public," he said that he gave them to ghost workers in their provinces and the decision by the president was an order and it was an order to be the first work done by the heads of provinces.
The day we had not been suspended from number of ghost workers from every province, we will not been encouraged to ensure that Shinyanga province had not been a great servant even one, due to the good strategies that was done by the provincial commissioner who passed.
We know that the provincial head does not go back to one place on the system of statistics and money to reveal that the ghost workers are in the concerned region and therefore the provincial commissioner is clear that the report brought to him are correct and if he has no doubt, he would have heard time so as to do more investigation.
To say only the truth that when it was announced that in Shinyanga there is no poor servant even one, me I got doubt if I saw it is possible that Tanzania had already been done by many people, including those ministers, but we did not see any action taken.
My answer was recently, because President Magufuli announced public the very first work of the heads of the provinces that they are required to make within one week and because every citizen did not heard that, so as to bring positive changes in Tanzania, then Anne Kilango Malecela was supposed to be careful in his work.
If "Asmara, the first time to allow his colleagues to make it put it and he knew that this speed of Magufuli will win, then he would be able to control him in his position and perhaps he would have been forced, he will be able to be approved, since that provincial commissioner has already been very big than his ability.
Now last week again, President Magufuli has identified himself to the director of Dar es Salaam City, Wilson Kabwe, suffering from heavy accusations against Kabwe got released by the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda.
Now there are people who have emerged with the name of "human rights" claimed that the style of doing away by President Magufuli is for humiliation and didn't understand the basis of human rights and others claim that he is doing is wrong.
