
The legal law of the child.

It has been written by Angela Semwenda, Dodoma.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The government has presented the parliamentary bill of laboratory authority of the chief chemist of the government of the year 2016, among other things, he will enable that laboratory to make investigation that will involve the use of genes, including the validity of the child to the child.

Moreover, the law intended to make the laboratory authority of the chief chemist of the government to become a referral hospital and the final spokesperson of the government in the investigation of the investigation of Jeremiah, science, criminal and genes.
If the law bill will be prepared, we will also enable the laboratory of the chief chemist of the government to make investigation that will involve the use of genes; example the legality of the child to diagnose human beings during disasters, to diagnose human rights and people from groups.
Minister for Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu while presenting the laboratory bill, he said that they will enable the laboratory to investigate about samples which are mentioned in various laws like food, medicine, water and clean water at the place of work, road safety and the use of drugs.
Ummy said that through that bill the law will be started under the nation of genes; therefore, it will be a procedure of availability of information that are being destroyed in the reserve of the human body.
He said it will also be started at the National Health and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority which is giving information to the public, to make sure that the contractors have to diagnose health events, research and training.
He said that there will be a special section under the authority of that laboratory that will be distributed by the government because of the investigation on criminal acts, disasters and other issues with the interests of the nation so as to enable the implementation of the responsibility to success and to bring development to the community.
According to Ummy, under the law concerned, they will supervise and controlling the samples including investigation results as well as setting up procedure of investigation reports to have the expenditure.
He told the parliament that the proposed law will not look and solve any other law but it will increase efficiency in the implementation of the laws that are available and solve the challenges that the laboratory has been facing and due to those responsibilities.
Presenting the opinion and advice from the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Services and Social Development about that bill, Peter Serukamba (CCM) on behalf of the chairman of the committee, Peter Serukamba (CCM) on behalf of the chairman of the committee, Peter Serukamba (CCM) on behalf of the chairman of the committee, Peter Serukamba (CCM) on behalf of the chairman of the committee, Peter Serukamba (CCM) on behalf of the chairman of the committee, Peter Serukamba (CCM) on behalf of the chairman of the committee, Peter Serukamba (CCM) on behalf of the chairman of the committee, Peter Serukamba, said the committee advised laboratories to investigate the use of shisha so as to identify its effects and to advise the steps to deal with those effects.
He said the committee has revealed that the use of shisha have been huge effects to people who use the country, especially the youth and that some people have been selling Shisha and drugs that are very dangerous to not only health, but also to the economy of the nation.
That committee also advised the laboratory of the chief chemist of the government to conduct an evaluation of chemicals that are used to kill into water so that it can benefit the effects of users according to their homes, but there are some drugs that have been dangerous and therefore contribute to the effects.
The committee also said most of the people still do not know the work done by the laboratory of the chief chemist of the government, therefore wanted the agents to announce its work, but also give education to citizens about the effects of chemicals for example part of the mining of minerals.
