
Ndugai has promised to end.
Dodoma Honorable speaker Job Ndugai has wanted the operation to address lazy workers at work to be included, by building the law to relocate instead of moving their work for investigation if it is complete.
Ndugai, who is a leader of the Parliament that his work is to make law, he requested the Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan to advise the vice president (AG) to take him quickly to parliament the law bill that will be expelled instead of being sacked.
President Ndugai has come at the nation while on the debate about the conduct of government officials to stop their allegations in public meetings and later advised the investigation to take place a matter which stakeholders in good administration and activists are saying it is a violation of the law.
Those stakeholders are saying that the suspects are still holding the first before being announced in public that they have a mistake, saying that not doing so, it is implementing investigations to take place with an aim of encouraging him instead of looking for truth.
Speaking at the session of the Vice President and the leaders of CCM in Dodoma province yesterday, Ndugai said that the proposed law of public servants is not good because it is used to protect people who do not depend on work due to carelessness and embezzlement.
"The laws to protect workers are unsuitable for servants, are good to advise that AG) to prove to all the parliament at the time we are supposed to prove to lazy workers after being removed and not being stopped," said Ndugai.
He said sometimes he has been surprised by seeing that people are tarnishing, but they wanted to be sacked from the law is an obstacle to making the nation to get in a loss.
He said that those laws were taken to parliament he will put on the fight to be educated on all at time so as to avoid being faced with some of the workers that do not have faith in their nation.
The chairman of CCM in Dodoma Province, Adam Kimbisa said the position of the party at the lower level is small because CCM seems to be from the district level up to the nation only.
While he urged the councilors and other servants not to destroy the president and instead of try to sucking the government servants but schools should be accountable when there is need.
