Is when President Kikwete will start being responsible for these attacks below?
28th of 07, 2014.

Leadership is not only to confirm the others but also to be accountable for others.

A good leader, then it is not the one who can show, remove the mockery, and even discourage each other, but also the one who is ready to recognize his mistakes and agreed to be accountable.
In our history, it's only one president who has had a procedure of testing and removing the mockery that was not ready to come up to power.
Contrary to the estates of the streets and words of the village, he is the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere just, who had the courage to test themselves and investigate on his government's performance and wanted to be accountable because he didn't like a person to resolve the mistakes of his administration or not a lot of others.
A very good example is to save it and it is one of the most important documents concerning the nation known as "18 years after Uhuru."
It's not my intention to do the analysis (which I wish you) with the desire to say that after 10 years of Uhuru, that is since 1961-1971, Nyerere saw there is the need to look for administration which they were with the country and to see how things were not done well and what should they be done well.
But basically it was an intention of Nyerere to give information to the citizens, we have come from where we are inspiring.
Inside his, even so, he used the time to explain some of the mistakes that he made have happened and that they used the mockery that was done by what was done by what is called known as "said, system of party 1981" although it is still unknown, I had a lot of strength like the stadium of Arusha.
It is in this mosquito, I have found himself looking for this question today, and that Kikwete is when he will go down and protect themselves in front of the citizens but when he will not accept the mistakes of his decision instead of enabling them to look at what is called for the fourth term "?

If you check since he came into power at the end of the year 2005, President Kikwete has met with things that are supposed to be afraid that it is a leader of the kind and it's because he is part of the problem which he himself wants to resolve it.
When we take this example of Richmond Development Company, most of us have a good deeds that has been shown by the prime minister, Edward Lowassa, and by true, he is the former prime minister for citizens concerning the whole scandal of Richmond and himself was revealed that.
Therefore, remember that his interview that was presented between him by Tido Mhando ,-wheeled motorcycles (now TBC1) explains how the decision to intervene in the tenders for Lowassa was a decision to Lowassa's decision led by Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe.
That report put it open the use of communication between the board, the ministry, and the prime minister, and the prime minister and companies of Richmond Development (one thing that Richard Mwaikenda) is communication between the office of the Prime Minister and State House.
