It is some of the citizens that came out to the area where he comes from where many were seen not to agree on the swearing in of leaders that are prepared by citizens and a bomb.
Without touching the names, most of them don't know whether to stop their voice claiming that these leaders will be able to reduce though he doesn't know this problems in their areas.
Saying some of the areas.
Something looking at anything which we have done is in addition of switching off for reasons and how things like this, you should know that and I was waiting for them to cook so they can use them.
Local government.
That we were not treated too.
He is looking at Swahili, they are saying that everything can be a good job and look for water together with the money to be sworn in.
We will be given anything that he got or what I will get in accordance to my chairperson's chairperson.
But there should be?
Required to do that according to the law.
And some of the chairpersons have requested them to explain what they are urging them to implement their responsibilities, but we should allow them to implement this period due to my public committee so as to improve or to improve the issues that it was a nuisance to the citizens, and it was a big challenge to the war or a small man.
He did food Himself to it.
Partnering with the competition.
There are you like the chairperson and my citizens I have made.
And I promise that we hope them easily and there are those that's why it was successful.
I want the director of Kinondoni Municipality.
He insisted that because the reason you will be paid democracy, it is true that even the creation of development and projects depends on more about the citizens starting from the streets and that through these things we have contributed to the streets but they can make sure that the security situation which is enough for development which maybe it's legal.
Close to him.
A total of one hundred and fifty chairpersons and those in various areas of Kinondoni Municipality have been satisfied with the guiding seminar concerning their responsibilities, the one being mentioned to fulfill the time he knew that the court did.
We have water to apologize when it gets themselves at this report there was a voice problem but it was a report of violence broke out during the registration exercise for local government leaders in Ubungo in Dar es Salaam city, there is a report of violence broke out during the registration exercise for local government leaders in Ubungo in Dar es Salaam city, there are countries that cause violence during the registration exercise for local government leaders in Ubungo in Dar es Salaam city.
