
Baby Amne Jackson needs more support, we need to remove it.

It has been written by Hillary Clinton.

It has been published today September 2016.

In this newspaper edition, there was a article that was carrying the news reporter, "the child who was loaded with the forehead what she doesn't have six months now," the article explained how baby Amne Jackson did a long time after getting that accident.

If you read this article, you will not stop being touched by a life that is living in the family of that child with a problem, putting efforts to how it has been born with a modem.
I believe that all of us were carrying this problem and see that we are part of the donation of this child that we will be able to help them get treatment, nutrients in a thing that she does not have been advised by the doctor and we will also involve him in pain when he is doing.
What made him take this child to be that he was a accident which he got in a motorcycle that was found in a motorcycle and broke down with a car which is not involved in Magoza village.
In that accident as a result of getting his leg, that child got problems in the abdomen.
According to the doctor of that child and the X-ray machine, the veins that resemble the head and his skill of the patient was affected by the same, causing its ability to provide a voice thus he uses her to talk to him.
There are different issues in our community which we show their cooperation, I request that this is the right of its own kind, we have come out to support this family to this child, for now he needs special needs in addition to treatment so that he can return to her different things.
As a result of a state of life of his family, even the issue of nutrients in that child is still easy, something that we should continue to weaken its body and therefore they wait for its obligations.
The child is supposed to get one acre of milk every day, abuse of food and fish that may be affected by vegetables, food that will also help him in trouble, how his family does not allow me for now.
Apart from one person, there are also institutions and organizations that are looking at children, I request that them because this is a child to be touched by his problem so that they can help him.
The government is also through the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children can see how the way can help him especially in the treatment side so that this child can leave a lot of pain when a child needs a donation.
Apart from the government, business people, different companies together with political parties are asked to participate in the joy of this family by giving donations through mobile phone number 452, 255 942 (Jackson should go) or 7731, 878, and Neema Ndeki.
The one who was surprised also can make anything that this child through the editor of this type of 843, it is also the family of that child also wants the donation of getting the membership card for leaving the child so as to fulfill his long time, different from now.
If we can contribute to political parties, soccer clubs, wedding, color in other different activities then and this we can close to each one for his position without caring about the level which will give you very little or big.
There is no little level that doesn't have a donation especially when you contribute to the problem and give a heart. It is not a must to be rich where you have the ability to help someone.
