
The small State House of Msalika as the President Kikwete, in a concert, he said the Citizen newspaper has been cheated.

The Citizen newspaper on Monday, July 27, 2015, on his 26 page, it has been a news with the news reporter, "presidents five, the ones mentioned to be leading in the poor salaries in Africa is this."

In that report which the newspaper shows his source is the analysis of African network "is alleged to be the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Honorable Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, is accused of the fifth position among the 38 leaders of the African countries who are the highest paid.

This newspaper shows that President Kikwete will be paid 30 million American dollars per year, being a payment of 1665 American dollars per month.

This news is not true and it is false with the fact that it is a critical condition and it's a risk of danger.

The income of the president of the United Republic of Tanzania for a month or for a year is not supposed to do and even get into the level is mentioned by the Citizen newspaper.

Since Uhuru, the year 1961, President of Tanganyika and later since the year 1990, the President of the United Republic of Tanzania has been among the leaders who are paid the poor performance in the world.

The salary of the president of Tanzania for a month is under the extent of that his salary increase, again, and the salaries that are paid some of the senior directors of some of the public institutions in the country.

In addition, it is an surprising thing that the Citizen newspaper, that is published here in the country, can get a false amount that he is paid by the president of Tanzania on social media instead of asking him to be given right answers.

By getting into a rumor of stopping this amount, the Citizen newspaper did not have any other intention but an aim of removing citizens and to build their hatred in their government and their chief leader.

It is our expectations, that the Citizen newspaper will make great efforts, as the profession of writing news how it gives, to find solutions to this issue and tell them that we expect the truth.

It has been released by.

Director of communications of the president.
State House Dar es Salaam City.
27th of July, 2015.
