
Prime Minister wants the ministry to put strategies of developing fishing in a long time.
The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has urged the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries to put sustainable strategies of enabling the citizens to inspect them into high prices of the sea by using a big and modern ship so that the nation can benefit from the resources that has been taken by the fishermen from modern equipment from outside the country.
Moreover, he has urged all the councils in the country to follow up the strategies and plans of making rivers and various diseases in the country to have sustainable fishing by following up closely the activities of fishermen and scorned those who are swelled against the law.
The Prime Minister has given that statement yesterday (Monday, August 1st, 2016) when he was opening the 23 anniversary celebrations of the farmers, East African region at the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere International Airport that is taking place in Morogoro province where the country has not been able to use the resources fully.
He has said that the councils are supposed to help youths to form groups to start producing fish, in their areas and fully in order to get modern technology.

Speaking about groups of helping entrepreneurs who are studying in the air and milk areas, he urged them to be educated about how to get loans to buy good fishing tools so that their activities can be productive.
In another step, the Prime Minister has said that farmers are supporting them to consider the use of good agricultural regulations including the correct use of modern tools including the availability of goods sponsored by experts so as to make the revolution in agriculture towards business farming.
Speaking about the issue of processing, he said at the time he visited various stalls, he got an opportunity to see technology that can be used by farmers, breeders and fishermen in increasing better production of productivity.
He has said he is happy to see the farmers, pastoralists and business people have the great desire to participate in bringing a revolution in the agricultural sector so as to go hand in hand with the pace of government to make the country living in food and continue the economy of industries.

During the forum, I believe that together with the aim of looking for food, farmers, farmers, and fishermen increase the production of production by partnering with the public and private sectors, to give them natural resources and increase the value of their produce.
Following that step, the prime minister instructed all councils to encourage the launch and promote small industries to process agriculture, livestock and fishing by involving public and private institutions, organizations and entrepreneurship groups in their areas.
Speaking about the way the government has planned to solve challenges of conflicts between pastoralists and farmers, the prime minister said farmers of many livestock will be relocated to the areas that are owned by ranches.
Earlier, the Prime Minister visited some of the stalls and areas of that area to produce various crops that are present at the fields, where he said he is impressed by the efforts that happened in the preparation of the exhibition of this year including the improvement of the stadium.

If you go through, I don't like to give your congratulations by building infrastructure and permanent houses of the exhibition, I give thanks the only thanks to our councils, our public and private organizations together with private individuals who have built and are continuing to build good and permanent buildings.
He also launched the council of Temeke District Council and said that the improvement of the grounds shows how all stakeholders in the agricultural sector, livestock, fishing and district have shown the importance of the exhibition as a way to increase knowledge and consider the farmer, a breeder and surgery by recognizing their contribution to the nation's economy.
The slogan of the show for this year is agriculture, livestock and fisheries are the development pillar, youth participate fully as they appear in the headlines for the right time.
