The president of Nigeria class one.
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2015.

Finally, last Sunday, we expect to vote to elect the president of the fifth term of the United Republic of Tanzania, members of parliament and councilors.
It is difficult to do a general elections that doesn't have problems from here and there is not only at home but even to our colleagues who in large extent are used to democracy, the general elections that took place here in England, May this year, it was also dominated by errors in the country and therefore, we should be grateful for the steps we shall reach.
However, during different reports of the supervisors of that election, the local and foreign affairs will identify that it was free and rights, what is happening in Zanzibar is something.
In this city I living to Glasgow, NSE, there are a big number of dairy products from Zanzibar, and one of the issues that led it is to see I have joy to end the election in peace and our colleagues in the islands and fear of the fate of that election, on the side of Zanzibar.
There are several questions about what happened in Zanzibar but because the efforts to solve the problem are continuing then I don't have a lot of discussing something to discuss because we should look like the problem of one side of our union and not the opposition between CCM and CUF.
On the other side, the results of the general election, which the candidate of CCM, Doctor John Magufuli, has expressed his opponent, the candidate of Ukawa, Edward Lowassa, has confirmed that in order to make the true change to be found, and so that the opposition will be able to join CCM from power, there is need more strategies that will involve more people.
Some of us did not know what we did at the end, while Lowassa's followers asked him that we have been bought by CCM party because the painful truth is that the former prime minister, Frederick Sumaye, basically the opportunity for the opposition parties defeated CCM was free.
What happens, the moment is to see some of our colleagues who don't want to agree with the fact that Lowassa who had already been announced to be the fifth President of Tanzania but it's also good to recognize that our constitution is open, but there is no authority that can lead President Magufuli.
The followers of Lowassa and Ukawa have only one election, they decided that they have been unable to have great expectations without considering the expectations that the reality is good for preparing himself and prepare for the coming elections.
On the side of the victory of Magufuli, despite congratulating him for his victory, I would like to inform me, he has faith, he personally and his party has had faith, he personally and his party will do everything to solve different problems facing his party and our nation in general.
The speech he made after being given a certificate of winning the presidential position celebrating the hopes of many in the speech, Raqqa, President Jakaya Kikwete, for taking a step against the traitors that stopped his party's campaign, and he went to taking any action against the traitors.
If there is a great priority to the presidency of Magufuli, it is the fight against corruption that don't pay CCM by appointing Lowassa, a politician that they don't talk for a long time on corruption, then maybe this time you can talk for a long time on corruption, then maybe this time I would have talked to another thing that made it's feelings of many.
