
Police Kilimanjaro has given a report of the crime in March-August.

It has been written by Nakheel, James, Moshi.

It has been published today, 18th September 2016.

The police force in Kilimanjaro province has extended to the court several suspects, including big robbers who were involved in various events of robbery and breaking houses for people and offices for the period of March to August this year.

In addition, in that period, they have been arrested six weapons, including five wagons, including five hundred thousand shillings which were used for criminal incidences in the provinces of Kilimanjaro, Arusha, and Manyara.
The regional police commander, Wilfredy has said that yesterday at the FFU airport in front of the Provincial Commissioner, Saidi Meck Sadiki during a ceremony to congratulate the 34 police who did well in events and responsibilities, and to increase the army.
Commander Mtaki said, among those suspects, 32 were faced with events of robbery and 253 injured were alleged to be involved in acts of breaking houses and offices and stealing various items that are worth millions of shillings.
About the drugs, Commander Mtika said that 555 suspects were arrested and more than 274 kilograms of marijuana and Miraji, to increase the increase of heroin in the purpose of selling, use and transportation in different times.
"All the suspects were taken to court, six among them were sentenced to prison life by transporting it," he said.
In addition, he said in that period, some of the events decreased by other increase, contributed an example of rape where the year 2015 got 92 compared to the year 2015 were seven and lost the year 2015 were seven and this year at 12.
He said in addition to that, events of the fight will join the use of the weapons decreased from 29, 2015 to 18 this year, to join the referees that had reduced from 104, the year 2015 to 96 percent this year and a series of houses from 1200 events in this year.
He said those achievements are due to the good work of the police in partnership with good citizens and other stakeholders who have in one way or another they need to help media stations.
