
The construction of Magomeni ward starting the day after tomorrow.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

Being 20 days since President John Magufuli has given a promise to build the construction of modern houses in Magomeni area, Ukonga, Dar es Salaam city, Tanzania Airports Authority (TBA) and have said that it is expected to start the construction of September 29 this year.

Speaking to journalists yesterday in the city, the Executive Director of that agency, Elius Mwakalinga said that the government has given five billion shillings for the purpose of starting that construction.
"We are grateful for the government for giving money, we are supposed to promise us to work so as to make sure this project is ending in time," said Mwakalinga.
He said that after the president, requested TANESCO to start that construction immediately and that since September 20 this year, it started in the first stages including drawings and restore the borders of the area which will help in planning the houses that is expected to be built.
Moreover, he said that the start of this construction is expected to make more than 600 employment opportunities to the residents of Dar es Salaam for one day.
He added that the construction will have five houses with eight pillars in each one which will place 644 residents, there are two houses for office together with business buildings.
Furthermore, he said that those houses will benefit those who need him to get their houses only but also other citizens can benefit from those houses.
However, Mwakalinga said that the area that is expected to be built in those houses is 13 acres of more than 30 acres that are in the country on its part, the Executive Officer of that project, Humprey Kadala, said that for now they are continuing to give soil bricks for that construction which is expected to be completed after 12 months.
Recently, the president placing the foundation stone in the area, he said the promise to construction of modern houses in the area, will start being implemented within two months and the construction of those houses will end in one year, where those 644 residents will be trained for a period of five years for free.
He said the residents who succeeded to follow up on their rights in court for a period of five years since the year 2012 when they were built in those houses, will be presented in the modern houses according to the list of their names that the president had.
