

But the stakeholders should stop the fight against that disease in the country.
By Bashir Nkoromo, Dar es Salaam City.
The customer service unit of Bandamundu (SCA) which is at the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) has been getting approximately 12,000 patients in a year since it was started in the year 2004.
For the whole period of approximately 10 years now, that unit has been providing free medical services to those patients, even so that service is now allowed.
April 21, this year Mtanzania visited the unit and found 50 parents who were accompanied with their children for the purpose of being operated on for that hospital.
It also witnessed those parents in a queue of going to pay 500 shillings that they had been directed by nurses to be because of getting the blood test.
However, in this area going to also other parents while seated on the periphery, they think about something with the desire that brought up.
Others want to be in a debate discussing about that decision of Muhimbili, I decided to register themselves and listen to close talks.
Parents.
I am my best to speak to my son and I will come to come out this Thursday when I have organized himself and money to pay the blood test, "said Mwamvua Ally.
These parents are complaining about climate change in that unit, that they have put a procedure to pay for services without considering that issue.
Grace Kabera, a resident of Makongo Dar es Salaam, says he was given those reports just after arriving at the hospital, a situation that had astonished him.
Therefore, this situation has started when why do not make us know what our phone number used to tell ourselves what our phones are expensive, the condition of life is difficult, I don't know if we will be able to pay these costs.
"You know that a child who comes from this disease needs a very difficult place because many times it is easy to pay for now, even the clinic is supposed to pay and still its drugs are expensive, how the current life is hard and we think that we will be able to sustain those costs," he told Grace.
Presa Museru who is one of the parents says that changes has been said to give up his child to continue with treatment.
Mkingie has been scored, a resident of Temeke says that I was told to go to Amana hospital but everyone got her son and even heading to the clinic but today (yesterday) I was told to pay for free.
GeitaMGODI of us a resident of Tabora, says that since the year 2001, his child has been getting that service and that he won the journey to come up and found those changes.
"I have been from Tabora, my son has 13 years old since 2001, he has been being treated for free for treatment when I have arrived here and I was told I am supposed to pay for services, I don't have to go back to home, I don't have back home to prepare themselves.
