While holding on claims.
Thank you so much the late Adam.
Has identified himself about strong talks about the death.
The international coach was the international coach, Mbwana Samatta was shillings.
Almighty God comes back like this death of affliction of the past, there is one offense that she is called to ask for their coach to them, while giving him my son to think this child.
He was a veteran coach and he was the coach at the University of Dar es Salaam Christ, many Tanzanians.
And mix up, we know you to be read by climate change.
We think who is the nation to see Philip as the father wants your contribution but he has used his contribution but on the right time, he has ever been a great contribution to play for two coaches from Denmark and remember and he had a great contribution to play for two players from Denmark and remember and he had a great contribution to play for the national team, they will have a lot of money for many players will be a leader of the program.
But the?
When you get in Dar es Salaam city, we will give a mother to a mother while at the funeral of those involved, the ones that brought a state of self-driven and attractive.
Or if you get in this games, the people wanted sports inside her sister, together but he was using his long time like you know that there is the first time if you know that there was first of you who had gone to him and other parts of the game.
There are many musicians, they are saying that I am a musician but they are still continuing to meet, let me be a player.
How do I have?
Most athletes that do a sheep on life here in Africa we saw the late father of your son who had.
Now if you want to go back here or we do to do so that we can be careful.
I thank you so much the mayor of Mwanza, who is not a must that they will help them to make sure that so as to build quills.
But he also wanted to ask the truth that there is not a great opportunity for foreign coaches, we have seen their contribution towards the international market but also.
We are inspiring.
He was not found.
In the first born or an ambassador, a very few days in the mwanaspoti newspapers you can see that this Mister had a great contribution and there are many youths who have come back to buy and even if you look at a lot of coaches who are in the party as it is under the party, maybe it is wrong.
The late God bless you for another meeting from is called Sunday Kayuni, together with the great contribution, we will arrive at the funeral.
Coaches from their coaches are also few people who have their ability to take their homes with the government together with the death of your coach so that we can be able to do.
By giving up a lot of talents here, you will also build the nation for true, or the last gap left for every foundation of soccer stakeholders, we need to work hard to follow up, "has a lot of money to Mister.
Mrs. as a message.
