
Discussions are important among them and the challenges that involve the country.
This year we would like to see change in the side of our political leaders.
The year that was completed yesterday we witnessed the movements that are not supposed to be seen from the leaders of any nation that is not allowed to be democracy.
A bad incident that deals of violence during the discussion of the discussion of the security law in parliament.
It is very important this year, the leaders should know this country does not benefit them by few people or the party.
It is important to have discussions between the leaders of all sides so as to look for a solution to the challenges that involve the nation.
Those in the government are not supposed to be proud because of them and to prevent those who are in the opposition side.
On their part, the opposition leaders are not supposed to use the strength and demonstrations to ensure the government can not allow me.
Make sure everyone wants to be better in front of the public, but it is possible that there is no quality that will be seen if there are conflicts from time to time.
This country is for all of us and we will not make us open in building.
His soul in Nairobi.
Road accidents are causing many to hear or see in the media how citizens get their lives in a different way.
For example, he said that he has written a story, one family lost their lives when they traveled with their car to celebrate the holiday.
By bad luck in that vehicle they died.
Therefore, I would like to urge the citizens that even when we run our vehicles to be fast, because life is very easy than a car.
When we complete a celebration to be careful when they travel.
His soul in Nairobi.
Some of the murder cases have died in the country, two women who were kidnapped them in the country. Two women who were kidnapped them have tried to do a bad life, therefore, if you see it, even when you see it, even when you see the legal action is still there.
It's not good for people to lose their lives, but we have said that Kenya have enough security.
Security is not there again that is the reason the killers do not kill someone is not a difficult thing.
And even when they were buried, it was found a warning and he was sent by big leaders in the government and they know that there was something they will experience even being buried.
Let me thank you, Nairobi.
Prime Minister has decided to help them the new Minister for Security Joseph Nthepheya.
Again, he has decided to identify corruption that it has called to the police force and Ang relaxed on them, there are them who are partnering with the criminals as the group of Al-Shabaab.
Likewise, we have tried to look at the environment that police live and always do the work so that they can have modern equipment so as to deal with the criminals.
Peter Mkonga and Chege Chigunda.
In a very easy way to change the community strategies of the East African Community to bring unity it is difficult to be careful.
To date, we have seen the implementation of several strategies that end up especially in doing business in the members of the party.
It will be good to implement all other strategies for each other, so that the resolutions are required to be taken as soon as possible.
The East African Union will enable the economy of nations and this area in general.
The union also can bring more ratio and prevent a probability of a few cents.
Winnie takes place in the White House, Maasais.
Kikio who has given a statement of a person, he would like to congratulate you for a certain thing before the day it reach it.
This is different from the Minister of Education, Professor Jacob Kraehenbuehl who does not want to give his statement about if the fees of high school fees will remain as usual or parents they will move to pay more.
The minister is not only parents who are waiting for your statement but also students and the school board should wait for those statements, because of parents, they will know how they are doing here.
We would like to hear the official stand of the government about this issue as soon as possible before the school was opened.
Hamas has been built on Friday, Benoni, Nairobi.
