Aveva has said, got married.
TASWE Saccos, 2016.

President of Simba Evans Aveva, and Abdul Mlabu all.

On July 31 this year, the police commander of the Police Force in Dar es Salaam was captured the red blood with the white child, that was the day of general meeting of the members of Simba.

The benefits of the meeting of this way is that inside that hall, there is no difference between a big and small.

The hall of the meeting was good and it is pleasant and a big part of the members who came to have one thing in their head is called Mohamed Dewji. "

The name of MO Blog left that meeting, than the agenda that were waiting by the administration to be discussed.

Two days before the meeting, MO Bejaia has put it openly that he wants to invest in Simba for 20 billion shillings to be given 51 shares and 49 percent for it to members.

The members of Simba, came out in the hall with the words of MO Dewji to come up with many words that they came to MO Blog and they left the MO Blog.

The president of Simba, Evans Aveva, entered inside the hall and he did not take a long time to break the meeting.

Aveva said that in a meeting with one of the start of looking at the agenda of the meeting, when she left the fifth agenda, one member Hassan Mpina, followed him and wanted Aveva, to go back to the 9th agenda which had explained the report of the committee on the improvement of the operations system.

The member was celebrated by his fellow members whom they identified himself from another agenda and said that he did not read the nine agenda which it makes it to use it directly.

After the member states to say that other members of the hall came out happy and support Mpina, informing him in front of Aveva.

After lots of affliction and screamed, in the hall, they've revealed to use extra strength and said, then I am your president I request you to listen to us to do that same time. "

Some of the members of the members were present, while others are going on with those violence and Aveva, and he continued with the sixth agenda that had been unable to confirm the funds of money.

After Aveva said that in that agenda, one member who did not wait until his name said Aveva, "has changed" in his weapons he had using the members while asking for votes.

That member said it is clear that he has failed to lead the club and they need change.

Aveva said, after seeing the "lack of" they saw the member and asked the microphone and put the microphone and put the microphone and see the behavior of the word of constitutional changes and the changes made in the hall.

The bad state in the hall made Aveva, for him to speak, 'I am like the president and the whole leadership of Simba, we have noted that he is a big group of members and the meeting was elected in that style of its kind.

Despite the statement he has emphasized on the state of issues in the hall, but there are some members who had asked words and do a extra work to be able to release the hall with great security.

Aveva has stated that the statement that has been eagerly awaited by a member who had a surprise, then the statement was like water and coldness.

Mke Mwema has made investigation and discovered that there are some leaders inside the Simba, he did not confirm it.

How do I tell me, some of the leaders being mentioned to take this plan, which took place on July 31, can continue to continue 10 times in what we are.

Members are the last time in all the issues that involve the club. That is why even this issue of MO Bejaia was taken to a large percentage of the members passed it.

I don't want to see disasters and accept to accept this game.

But as the objection of some of the leaders, we will also look for the game itself with members so as to maintain their primary rights.

The members is when she put him in power, Aveva has said that other leaders and their leaders have the authority to decide anything to the club.

The writer of Mo has given a team not to make a lot of discussions if business people are supposed to protect their business.

It is an issue that need more so much and took it in every corner of the 80 years that continues to fulfill Simba recently, a system of noise you have failed to help the club from poverty this year.

More than the club's building that was there since the era of King Mohammed, "Bey wa Mitego," there is a new video inside Simba?
