
Samia of pastoralists, farmers sing the killings in Morogoro.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

Deputy president, Samia Suluhu Hassan has said that the government is not supposed to see the killings of farmers and pastoralists that are playing in the country and especially in Morogoro Province, he also urged the farmers to obey the 12 laws of the year 2010 that was approved by parliament for livestock to be recognized by being beaten in accordance with the law.

The Vice President said that the day before yesterday when he was speaking to hundreds of citizens of Morogoro town at the outskirts of Morogoric, Dodoma area where he was on the way to Dodoma province.
He said that without following the law, livestock to be sent away came to face the law of wanting livestock to pass through it, they will be able to sell their livestock due to the violation of the law that is found.
Therefore, he urged the farmers and all farmers to love each other and leave each other, when they follow the issues of their issues they have made in a little way without considering the effects of those sides.
He said the intention of the fifth term government is to see farmers and pastoralists live in peace and by putting up with each other in its implementation, an issue of identifying livestock and laying of cows that can be implemented by all farmers in the country.
Therefore, he said that the being recognized by livestock and receiving donations does not have another aim, but to identify farmers and cows that have a point of reducing and controlling the theft of livestock and planning of better use of land and livestock.
"Morogoro there are others who agree to make livestock and others are determined to put points, the issue is legal because all livestock to be taken and have good intentions to the breeder and government, therefore, it is good for farmers to obey the law," he said.
While in the district of Gairo district, the Vice President, urged the government officials of the villages and ward to work skillfully because it is the ones that contribute to conflicts between pastoralists and farmers by receiving farmers in their areas while having many livestock that do not match the capacity of land.
Regarding the availability of reliable water in that district, the Vice President said the government is working on that issue by releasing two billion shillings that were left out of six billion shillings planned to address the water project in the Gairo district to enable access to enough water.
