
LAPF provides investment in the industries sector.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

I was published (03 / 2016.

The Pension Fund of LAPF, has said that it will partner with investors and the government to expand the scope of investment in the industries sector so as to provide employment opportunities and increase the members of the fund with the aim of promoting the national income economically.

Director of preventative services to the members of LAPF, Keke Letse Phoofolo, said that during the investment conference of Morogoro province that was held in two days on September 29, 30th this year in this province.
He said investment in the industries sector, will not enable the fund to increase the number of workers that will be able to build a stable fund that will give better benefits to its members.
Mabisa, said investment activities in the fund will be done in accordance with the policy on investment and various guidelines, including the Central Bank of Tanzania together with the rule of control and management of the Social Security Fund (SSRA).
He said the guidelines, it cares for investment areas, benefits of benefits in the investment area and the amount of investing in investment program and considering the importance and responsibilities of a short and long-term responsibility of the fund.
Director of the services of LAPF, said the fund is in talks with the Ngapa Company for the purpose of a factory for making meat of cows and goats.
He said that another project is at the tea processing factory which is in Lushoto district, Tanga province, together with the project of making a factory to produce the hospitals by using the cotton resources in Shinyanga province.
Mabisa, said another investment is the construction of a bus station in Msamvu in Morogoro Municipality which up to completion it will cost 97 billion shillings and for now, it has reached the last stages before being launched officially.
"This project has started offering training where the collection of land has increased from 949 billion shillings per day to 15 million shillings," said Mabisa.
Together with that, he said that the procedure had been prepared by setting aside areas of the exhibitions and buses, diplomas, and motorcycle riders' machines.
