Magufuli a few days to land.
Deodatha Makani, 2015 with Raia Mwema, entertainment and games.

The National Electoral Commission (NEC) has continued to announce the results of the general elections and until yesterday evening, the presidential candidate through the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Doctor John Magufuli, was leading the number of votes.
According to the results from nine constituencies of elections that were presented their report by the National Electoral Commission (NEC), between 264 constituencies, that candidate of CCM was leading by 4667 percent of the Revolutionary Party (Ukawa), Edward Lowassa, who was leading by 4648 percent.
The presidential candidate of ACT-Wazalendo, Anna Mghwira was happy with the far compared to 8 percent of all the remaining votes, while the four other presidential candidates who registered themselves with 112 percent.
The statistics of the commission (until they're going round) were showing that between 180 provinces where its results were confirmed to be announced officially, CCM were leading by seizing a 124 and CUF parties were leading in one province every year.
As the situation of issues it will continue being that, the results can be faced with injuries due to three research conducted by different institutions, including CCM themselves and that Doctor Magufuli will win by more than 60 percent.
The research that was done by a non-governmental organization, FASDO, whose results were made in September last year, showed that if the election was done between August 19 and September 7 this year, the CCM candidate Doctor Magufuli had not get 65 percent of all votes while the parliamentary candidate, Lowassa had not get 25 percent.
Another research that was done by the Ipinda Tanzania company (SITE) says that the CCM candidate, Doctor Magufuli won by 62 percent against 31 percent of the parliamentary candidate, Lowassa, if the research conducted by CCM themselves, showed that their candidate won by 69 percent.
Another research that was done by the non-governmental organization of Tanzania Petroleum Development Goals (MAP), if the election will be done during the first time of September this year, a total of 5% were arrested, they would have appointed Doctor Magufuli.
At the same time, election of the general elections from the European Union who are in the country for the purpose of following up on the process of elections, they have already given their previous report about what they witnessed, saying the elections had a big competition, but therefore it was planned to have enough efforts in accordance with the directors of the elections.
"According to the union of the union, the voting process was done in a good order and to a large extent in the state of calmness, local and EU have found voting for positive feedback.
"The procedures of voting will be followed when all at the polling stations will visit, and be able to provide enough safety so as to verify the validity of votes and transparency in the process.
"There was even so, some of the stations to vote in Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar Islands, where the coalition elections were able to be stopped due to lack of decay by voting process.
"In Zanzibar, in all stations that were being viewed as compared to time caused by the opening procedures at large numbers were followed when they were seen to go well in the stations to vote that were being viewed as a big margin in the environment of calmness.
There is still a few events of campaign activities in the areas of stations to vote and the representatives of political parties, there were at approximately all stations for voting that were seen as required by the workers of ZEC (Zanzibar Electoral Commission) was seen to be very good.
