Doctor Slaa swears in parliament that he would not help a human being.
Petit 30, 2016.

The former Secretary General of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA), Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, has said the plans to evade parliamentary sessions to help the opposition parties as they were not supposed to bring down heavy issues.
In his talks with the newspaper that you made from Ottawa, Canada, on Monday this week, Slaa said that the way to stop meetings would have been strength if the opposition could have other seats in parliament and not as the ruling party of CCM is the biggest of members of parliament.
Opposition members of parliament have been coming out of the Tanzania Parliament in this budget of the budget on claims of getting displeased with the leadership of the deputy speaker, Doctor Tulia Ackson, who is claiming to be the arbitrator.
"I have been a member of parliament in the Nane Parliament, the ninth parliament and the constitutional parliament is true that they had already lost huge conflicts as it is in the current parliament. In addition to the ninth parliament and 10 have been part of the leadership of the opposition camp in parliament.
"In our discussions, we ever participated in different steps from outside the parliament and these are the parliamentary rights in all over the world, for a few to show them with a certain thing, so that most of them do a decision and a few are given the right to be heard."
"The official camp of the opposition shall know our place, and therefore for recognizing this, we did not have done a decision, for example of writing the speaker, by recognizing that even if he will not know it, we do not have enough numbers to understand."
"We continued to resolve issues so that the whole community will understand us, this is the strategy that we used, different from the strategy being used now wanted the deputy speaker, who don't have sure if it will get fruits due to the opponents being few in parliament.
"This is real and it's not true and I don't know that if they are successful, they will release that explanation and that they are supposed to know your answer by one with the eyes and ears.
"By recognizing our place, our liberation may be able to save Tanzania, the correct use of the parliamentary regulations as I see, together with symptoms of" an event that is seen, but also that situation is due to the correct use of the regulations on the opposition side.
"It is normal, even in court, people do not have any foundation stone for a small offense or regulations (thoughtful narratives). If you are not aware, then you are supposed to compensate you for your quality and keenly," said Slaa, who was also the presidential candidate on the CCM ticket in the year 2010.
The former secretary general who released his position to oppose that party to appoint Edward Lowassa as his presidential candidate in the general elections last year he advised the opposition to make things that will involve the citizens and not from the parliament only.
"The opposition should be careful, good research, so as to bring up a new argument and the opposition if you want to succeed, it should be only one of the public but also to the government workers.
"Everything is also a time when you talk about something in a group, it is possible for a lot of food, but there is no complaints about the government of CCM claiming that those complaints have no benefit, because citizens have not been successful because citizens have been able to forgive him by the strength of his motion during the campaign," he said.
At the same time, Slaa has explained that one of the problems affecting the opposition parties here in the country is the kind of statements that they get to the government when explaining his motion.
Giving an example, he said the statement made in Kahama, Shinyanga recently was not political but by announcing the fight and that maybe that is the reason for steps followed by the dollar after the statement of that way.
In the normal state, the statement was a statement by the fight against the fight (something that is very different from the meetings or normal work performance in accordance with the law and 5 / 1992) it is a must that you have already received that which will be allowed (FGM).
"The good police work is to protect the peace and security of the citizens and any statement, Makabe, a fact that it will be received through a system that you're following up with politics is an issue and it's not a matter so that you know what is said.
