Education is a trap.
You want to raise funds from the village because the primary reason for some of the workers or all pastors are many.
In the city to sit in the villages.
Mwanza has confirmed the second to improve those houses and EWURA is enough.
Welcome him but also.
It is a must for MOI and MOI.
The Almighty God bless you to improve it, there are our fellow Tanzanians live and a scholar that are getting annoyed by our fellow Tanzanians in the villages and also give problems to our colleagues in the villages and also to serve our colleagues in the country to serve our colleagues.
We can't know another side again, there is a officer who was allocated to do their legs.
There are Ugali, that was done by him is his work that lives in Dar es Salaam, I was very happy that if you came out, I would like to talk like that, but the Uganda who was planned until now was sitting on parole.
Now that player who was planned to do another work in Mwanza is now sitting.
Maybe it doesn't know, we should know that all of a good example this year, I personally has contributed to work, I will answer the foreign affairs and now because everything you think there is a problem in life in the city after.
Am in one of these days if I think Fatma Mwassa has found an employee of the quick process while it is working with other councils but also infrastructure is a friend whom they have paid him in a short time, the late does not listen to you.
It gives them a challenge.
Our nation is now and our directors of this council.
There is a day I found drinking water.
It is same to an extent that someone who lost them don't know our fellows.
When they look for certain questions, some of God is pregnant in the past, that is a person who is thinking I will get married inside the death.
The Almighty God give her the village not only.
Through the picture.
?
We are doing every week as our father have been going into the city so as to make ways to bring income to this issue, it is a problem who he has said, there is no reason for Kigoma to serve our colleagues today.
.
And the mid-fielder so they are going to do that work to be able to do their success without knowing the questions of these teachings of their salaries when they went to interests outside the future.
Welcome to each other thing, if you shouldn't inform us that we joined with us in the morning.
I said in the very high table when we are looking at the news that is here in the middle of the journey to come up with night due to the health workers, we have managed to work hard because women have managed to talk for now, that is where we were taken to now.
We need to now.
Through this time we have been the fuel that came, where they said at the time they said in Tanga, he had mentioned the votes were mentioned.
The late?
The right to do that.
And we have been so much in a good system that we are supposed to do it if he had said there is a need for because.
Reason, we should consider the Almighty God that this person has not been done because of me.
I also said there must be a friendly infrastructure but also?
It has learned not to work hard to serve Tanzanians, the Almighty God and it has been allocated a place to reach, if I am self-employed while there is no free income by saying it is that you are using the tax for Tanzanians to stop paying the salaries being first.
A person is called on the field, "Kijukuu cha Demokrasia na Viatu ', we had to enable someone to do so, the farmers are supposed to make sure even if this election will not understand what you know if the elections will not understand what we believe in this primary and people in accordance with the rules and regulations.
When he came and continued to give birth, and conflicts through a expensive price to see you are not seen.
And those are the executives of the speaker, I went on that there out of these for seeing the patience of the department.
There are some officers when he came to come but today or the man is happy about how to see it.
These were admitted to the market you can help solve land conflicts or to give it the agriculture that it is the farming for the teachers a cry.
You miss.
Their own kind of work.
You cannot be Ukawa.
To live and run away in the village and it has shown the responsibility of developing agriculture that is not beneficial, standing up to Tanzania, to welcome him to go to the province of Kagera.
It is that that was being transported with the talk or the moment has come from the agricultural officer.
And to see that, the produce of living and ahead of not in the city is dangerous to what has already been informed.
The information officer for the purpose of putting correct plans for improving the vehicle.
It depends on what someone has bought a wedding of use in the world because the registration of these activities depends on what we have decided to inspect them if we have the desire to inspect them if we have already directed them to make sure that you work on blood is not from the church.
Very much, most of it is growing up in the villages where they can be read here they should be able to take their responsibilities and then we had their responsibilities to serve Tanzanians we are making their salaries a slave '.
It is easy to know why you come up to reduce when we start from Prime Minister.
River as to finish.
Maybe so much.
What have we seen only?
The late God bless you to release his release and then like this.
The poor is a full table there.
For leaders or click here is the executives who have been given bonds, we need to give counseling, but there they can be eaten by a new card of new Komba when I think that one person who is in witchcraft.
But he did not happen in town, they were allocated forever and why the news from Tanga may think he can abandon the women to work.
You miss.
It depends with that person which is to be a person.
When he came out, he has decided to take the right step in the follow up of development of its head to stop asking themselves and the heads of other provinces today in a system of how.
There is a possibility that we have a problem of their system that they need to check and supervise people in the newspaper and we don't know how we should follow here, but we don't know what I'll get here to help Tanzanians but they live in the villages to help Tanzanians but they live in town.
Kenya will happen here in the phone of the new customer and I will do to see if I get married together with Ras Kiduku was only in large numbers at the special seminar of "Makulu later it will come back again.
