In the end of you, we've started the way this period of today, the noise are for business people from Mbeya Region as he explained the challenges of business.
Following those challenges, business people here, we are meeting with plan of expanding resources and business so as to prevent it?
Moreover, through the procedure of capacity for the local government authorities, it has been giving training to citizens about preventing themselves on plots and farms as well as business so that they can be presented in the government.
Some of the entrepreneurs as well as a business person have been cooperating with the government with an aim of paying taxes but also some farmers have got an opportunity to fulfill their farms and be given documents which are used to increase the income by using them as a bond of borrowing from various financial institutions and thus improving it.
When you go back in collaboration with the council of various municipality, already has been forced to business councils of cities and nine of which have been worked with more than five thousand entrepreneurs.
Business people should have received training and encourage their businesses to register names of business and business licenses through the procedure of one center, that is one of the stations and get an opportunity to borrow at different financial institutions and they have requested for the wedding.
They fear that it is true you will be able to run a business can be successful.
And another challenge is that many fear that you are in financial institutions if they have also apologized to the people who are supposed to go to there are those with big capital as a young man.
And I would like to be?
People are not found.
Most of the father could not be remembered, they could not have a lot to ask about registration of period of many businesses, they were told to get married because the involved had already been stolen, it had already been successful since I was given.
That take it is that we are continuing to provide education to those who came to enable them to get the education that we are good.
The adviser of the business.
That I have tried to communicate with other people so that they continue to continue our citizens to get education and maintain their businesses so that they should not be able to rise up so that they do not be affected.
Also other stakeholders like to arrest him.
And they are starting the training of entrepreneurship to our citizens, for that citizens are benefiting from.
The contribution is.
Already our big leaders are.
The training is going on so that our citizens can continue.
Education of many entrepreneurship do not know about entrepreneurship, what is not our people receiving by the low level that saw you are here at the center they have an understanding about the business and then it is something.
At the other time.
