ILO, it will help the role in the policies of employment.
Wash your 30th, 2016 by our correspondent.

The World Health Organization (LHRC) is participating together with the government of Tanzania in improving the national policies of employment so as to put a new direction on fighting with the problem of unemployment.
That has been said by the International Relations Officer for Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, and Burundi, Mary Kaumba, in his discussion and downloading the social network of Twitter.
The discussion in parliament, Naila Kakingo said the world caused us to ask that representative about employment issues and how the implementation of the world's sustainable development goals (SDGs).
Statistics show that until now one Tanzanian out of ten percent (11,07) lives without having employment, and added that approximately 43 percent of the youth in the world do not have employment or work that are not good.
Some of the things that will be considered as well in the new policy is to ensure that workers are spoiling all the areas of work and be open in giving their views at more freedom.
"We thank the government of Tanzania to make national employment policies and a special program to build capacity in entrepreneurship issues," he said in the discussions.
We aim to reduce the problem of lack of employment and a shortage of employment together to coordinate the employment market reports from time to time. "
The review plan of policies is also aims to ensure that the agricultural sector, which is the only sector that has a lot of employment opportunities especially for the youth, it's a catalyst to the availability of employment.
"Without considering the agricultural sector, it will be difficult for them to get many youths that are in the employment market every year," he said.
He has said the biggest challenge in the availability of employment is a big increase in people where it has noted that Tanzania is one of the countries that it will have a big increase in people.
Another strategy has also been organized between UNESCO and the government of Tanzania through the Ministry of Labor which will aim to give birth to people with disabilities to get employment of decency.
He also said that farming is working together with the government to ensure that employment for the children are stopped especially in the local government levels.
It is estimated to be one-thirds of the children under the age of 14 years you are in employment in the world. This situation is not different here in Tanzania because many children have been employed in farms, mines, industries and small industries and homes.
The representative says that TEA is cooperating with the government in improving the policies and various program to help employment to the youth and also it is partnering with the financial institutions to make different products for the youth.
He also said that the government has requested various stakeholders to enable the youth to deal with the challenges of employment including the National Housing Corporation, the Office of the president and the office of the Prime Minister.
"Boznia has enabled them to use their talents especially in doing business and also to cooperate with the Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE) to improve the environment of attracting investment in various economic sector," he said.
The plan has also enabled his organization to work with youths to increase their knowledge on issues of employment market.
He also noted that ZEC is collaborating with parties' parties and the community of civil servants in implementing plans that will enable availability of equality in the growth of the economy.
"We are supposed to have a economic growth and enable it to increase many employment opportunities in the official sector in order to improve the lives of people and the economy of the villages," he said.
At the same time, Mary has stated that it is working with East African Community to implement an agreement with the market market, which will enable the countries to open doors for experts from the EAC.
"What is required is to destroy the law and procedures of work and which will enable employees to work any country in the EAC," he said.
The East African agreement continues to be implemented where for now the party members are supposed to open doors for products and experts from other countries.
