
Victims of the earthquake.

It has been written by our journalists.

It has been published in 15th of September.

Residents of Bukoba Municipality, that were affected by a big earthquake which occurred last Saturday, has given his heart after wanting the executives and the chairpersons of the districts in Kagera province, to make sure that the rights of those victims so that they can get accurate data to enable them be given assistance as required.

Furthermore, he has urged the executives and those chairpersons, to make sure that they provide good rights to each person he was touched by the disaster, and not to choose if they are now.
Those citizens have given their cry yesterday before the national chairperson of the community of parents of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) Abdallah Bulembo who had a tour to inspect the areas that were affected by that earthquake and giving their condolences to the victims.
A resident of Gongo la Moto Ward a resident who has been affected by the earthquake, Joyce Joseph whose house was affected by his seven family family, told Pitt that the executives arrived and check the house for outside, they wrote and left.
Those citizens said when they ask those directors, despite the effects that happened, the effects that happened, the situation that is making sure that their government has reduced.
"We are grateful for you to come and ask him and to find out the donations, today is the fifth day we are looking outside, we do not inform them, there are some houses that do not see them, but if you see them, but if you see them, but if you do not get married," claimed Joyce.
Resident of Kasese district, Amen Mwijage said there are some of the chairpersons of the estates, when they get time to write names for the purpose of assessment and they are running politics.
"If the chairperson is a certain party, he says that there is no problem because it is not for our party, but you know that we are using our areas to go to camp and stop these devices that we cannot bring themselves with any time," said Mwijage.
After Bulembo who is also a member of the executive committee of CCM to hear the complaints from those citizens, he visited and saw the situation in the country, he instructed the provincial commissioner of Kagera and if they are not doing so, blame will be big and the aim was to be reached.
"The people who are going to work and write names of people along the house, should be satisfied that what is happening not to go through political issues, therefore citizens have been selected for the political issues," said Bulembo.
Furthermore, Bulembo gave a donation of various items including iron sheets, 500 kilograms of rice, bed sheets, flour, iron sheets and two million shillings worth 68 million shillings, that is owned by the community of parents in Bukoba town.
All funds are 88 million shillings.
The Provincial Commissioner of Kagera, Salum Kijuu said that the current report about the situation including houses that were affected, including the heavy rain, 264, equivalent to now, it is estimated to have been affected by the incident, which has never happened in Tanzania.
Kijuu said those injured have reduced and lost 51 out of 1200 who had been admitted, which 23 among them need to be operated on.
"But still citizens are sleeping on the end of the end, currently experts in Geology will support all the estates in order to provide education to the citizens so that they can protect themselves when they are very important because of those victims," said Kijuu and added.
"In the first steps we have planned to give the citizens every 20 iron sheets and five bags of cement, while those who were affected will be given 120,000 shillings for a period of six months and up to now there are 13 big doctors from the referral hospital of Bugando Referral Hospital, two expert doctors and six doctors from China."
Various donations has begun to be released, to members of parliament to give their one-day work with the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa giving more than 1 billion shillings from the community of ambassadors and business people in the country to help them the victims of the earthquake.
The chief executive officer of the TPL Board in the country, Professor Abdiwawa, said that since Tanzania getting Uhuru, this is an earthquake that was nine, different from Saturday, because they have done research and discovered the earthquake which is in Missouri.
"We don't have a mechanism to destroy the song before the whole world, there is no single bus that doesn't leave, but there is a penalty that is close to Mwanza province because it causes the earthquake available even a small problem," explained Professor Ignas Rubaratuka.
He advised citizens to stop competing in their houses soon as they see or hear the symptoms of the earthquake but along the danger of houses, beds, beds, houses, where an earthquake takes place at least eight hours and the doors that will be free.
