We have not seen the end of the constitutional parliament.
Memba, 26, 2014.

The month now is passing by the Parliament of the constitution has started even through the first article of the new constitution!
And if the relationship between different sides are given at any time it is easy to say that despite this process of illegal immigrants, there will be a lot of problems when the debates on different sections of the draft will begin.
Already we have seen in the issue of government structure with two sides that did not match to a large extent that I don't be easy if we don't be easy like we don't like to do that despite the elder of the Constitutional Review Commission, Samuel Sitta to try to get that opportunity.
When he got the opportunity to talk about the day before yesterday he spoke without stealing the words he was a man for many people and at that time he gave him the truth about the cause of the problem of continuing with the government's system, a system that is caused by many complaints that have already been taken inside that system.
Warioba was celebrated by parliament that is divided into parliament due to the problems that the people of Zanzibar are seen in Tanganyika and the government's system of the people of Zanzibar came to listen to him and sometimes it has been sold at the end of people of Mainland, especially concerning the people of Zanzibar.
But the speech of Warioba did not sit and be accepted easily, because people were seen completely to be the plan to revoke the regulations so that he put in giving his speech before the parliament was officially launched by President Jakaya Kikwete had the aim of giving him President Kikwete to prepare for the decision of three government issues.
And it's not only that, because President Kikwete is the chairperson of CCM and the Constitutional Assembly to close to 80 percent of CCM, giving him a chance to speak after Warioba it was also a way for the chairperson of parliament - the minister in the government of Kikwete and member of parliament of CCM - to try to save ship.
And that is how he did Kikwete, when he spoke with the parliament in a speech that has been eagerly awaited by the president without hesitation but waiting to listen to the speech of Judge Warioba and those who believe in that system.
However, the speech seemed to appeal to other people especially those who believe that President Kikwete did not want to get into the debate of the constitutional provisions and instead they could not just talk to the members of parliament to be free to reach an appropriate time after the open discussions.
Therefore, for these they were seen that President Kikwete has tried to disrupt the process of a new constitution that he himself is the one who had started a result of his vision and without doubt, not the opposition members only or not the group's delegates.
All these have happened inside this month and they have happened before the start through the sections of that draft, it is not clear that there is clear that there is clear that there is clear that there is clear that we don't know where I don't see the signs of people who agree to change their ideas.
We will witness that a debate will expire and Sitta will not be able to make it a difference between the delegates is very big more than the ones that we have never seen in the general assembly. I don't see if President Kikwete will be able to save a ship since there are other signs that this journey from Dodoma will not be at the end.
It's because if we expect this process to prepare to see that they are involved in the politicians because this parliament is important for politicians who do their interests, and if it was difficult to decide if the votes are not open or secret, for a whole month, I don't know how it will be in some of the sections.
