I was called?
Anna me in our article of discussions, you know I was communicating with.
And we will go to listen to the youth but also we will also have a expert.
The security hospital that is in Dar es Salaam, Doctor Mwaruka who will go to give an explanation and discussing different issues that will discuss their problems.
If you as a youth you want to know as one of the country you are getting contributing to that offense, is called Magesa, has changed the truth I personally, as a youth.
So much fever disease.
First, it is young Kidney, though I have heard the truth that so as to look at what I heard about this disease, I don't know whether this disease is very dangerous to me, but we have not been giving a lot about what this time you have no treatment but only you have no treatment but it has only said.
We go to thank our reporter to names I have been known as' Views', but I think it is that this disease has become a very important thing, but I think it is need for people to intervene in one area and even if I think it's true that our disease can be used here and even if I think it is good because I advise you to see the name of the water system in the blood system and even outside the blood system.
If you get from within seven days it's not very easy, we are still a way who is still a way with it through this, it is that the government has been silent like this, but there are my colleagues who are in the villages where they are not there.
Therefore it is good for the government through its national songs that it gives the people and take them.
The team of people who will also go through educating the child is not able to know the mother who is pregnant.
This is not a problem.
Currently, a class to give his child cannot know what?
He will win him so that nobody would like you to get that disease even so I don't see you.
How many times how many times you start praising the government of the time the government has already been said to be what we have never done in the whole minute, in Mbeya town, he has intervened in a whole of our brothers in the area where it came to them and they can get the Dengue fever disease, maybe I explained the answer.
Raising those books is one of the things that are contributing to the spread of the disease, it has said that one of them is one of the things that arise in that a child is ditle, we are taking the same thing.
You means that if he is already using the disease, it means that there is a big percentage that is a disease.
We have seen that disease.
What should they do now in order to make sure.
The youth get enough understanding but also.
We have to eradicate terrorism.
And right now I will talk about the equipment so we must be careful, to avoid this disease for example in the whole time to prevent it.
It's not a must so much where those who still have never happened in encouraging.
He did not know as a youth.
Go safely on the issues of sex we will see that for a long time.
Still, that is still a meaning.
We have tried to see and said that Swahili is there in another question and not as a girl.
Just try to check up where we are.
And what thing that we are required to do we like, clothes are there.
Most of them while at a price.
Let us continue to let me just a easy price and five hundred thousand you get clothes.
Wednesday, on top of my friend that you love me or you want to know my friend and you want to be careful when we get a person who we want to do if there is a youth who we want to do if there is a youth who we want to do if there is a youth who we want to do if the disease is there.
As youths to make sure that.
Let us go together.
Ayo TV I see it is that the very important thing is that the availability of treatment or drugs is the same because apart from sex, we see that this disease is more than AIDS for the reason that AIDS has been infected on a very little way, but if you go to this disease, there is many ways that can be used in this disease, that is many ways.
Causing that you cannot get this disease.
When you can be able to prevent me, I do not forget about it, but.
You will still rise.
You will get this disease from being satisfied with our sister's citizens and our sister's support here, I will make sure you look at the same time because our culture is supposed to be very careful because we do not be careful, therefore, we should be very happy because we should be very fast, we should be very happy because we should be very fast, we should be very attractive to us.
How do you talk about other youths?
They should not enter education or other youths?
Who are supposed to listen.
They have enough education about this disease, we know that we youths we like to do?
Your first, we had to be on this first to George, which happens when you know where you are not born, we can change us so that we can change us because we can learn from poverty, there are some youths who will also be taken very keenly here in the high level there are some people who don't know.
With an understanding and there is keen that you have never been commanded?
But there are others so much, we become a very much like that you are not happy with the disease or when I told him there that we will be.
Church Mwaruka from the security hospital that is in the city of Dar es Salaam. he will go to give more explanations about.
An understanding of youth.
About the public, we will we go.
To listen to the doctor and this service?
And its effects are big.
Efforts are taking place to provide education to service.
For what purpose can be chicken to test and when you are seen there is problems.
Big about the ones that have a spirit you have and its results to send to read the activities.
People who do you do?
They were not injured in and also you have the vaccinations in the country when they found it has no HIV infection.
Then there is a difference, there is a source.
His cause is the source that does not prevent people to get the sweetness of contraception?
For instance, we sign those students, I have been called you to pass or be stopped by those who are involved so that they get married.
When we get in Dar es Salaam city, we've heard this disease there in talk about the meaning that the whole body is similar to as known as known as Father of the patient.
The infection of AIDS has a meaning that if you follow the sex act and there is people when you meet who knows the person with AIDS.
Human beings will do?
Where there is a spirit you cannot get.
Keen on Dengue fever if there are no drugs that someone has said that no abuse is nothing to get into the clothes.
You should be.
When the desire is told what the youth see that the problem is.
What should happen now in ensuring that?
The problem is affecting the youths to consider the first that it will break it so as to look for information that they are able to use those information as required.
Protect themselves from infection.
81 percent.
Fifty for the reason being talked about.
What is the disease.
If there is a possibility of protecting it then?
What is the existence of example there are primary things.
There is possible that someone he wants to use a needle together.
Things are asked the drugs for example?
This course will start to save.
How will you know that here we are talking to listen to how to use them but also.
