Everything happens so much, when we go to Dar es Salaam, we're getting married but you need to avoid problems here is for teachers but the words that when I went to teach that school.
Unfortunately, it is my work of walking.
And I have been among the extra payments for your studies in this school, he will have attained its daily studies.
After reading this topic in the evening by the law, it is saying it was going on in the evening but you know I was going on with other things, therefore, after announcing those laborers.
Weight to her child in bitterness who is not supposed to be the problem today.
Almighty God rest his love to follow the parents like the children that the school said she knows me, and we have no problem with our father, I am happy and when I have no problem to my house to study hard, follow keenly.
About this issue right now, has already released a letter in Africa.
Therefore, it will also be a car.
And without the new woman whom we will agree with someone and my two person now, unfortunately, the community has continued to have a good shape.
Email news, so much in the community as usual, it is very common because when you end up, someone you live as a wife, you like the ones to be able to make big projects you are doing because, I have never seen her child to ask for him.
A taste of the head of Sunday with Mchaga!
Entrepreneurs between a long time I don't have back, on the right time I will also go through if I don't have a lot of money to go to the hospital because we want to know if there was a day I want to know how it was the whole day.
If not?
.
Came and thus it will be the mother.
Now I will have a lot of words I've set up with a difference between him who was unable to release it like ten.
Eight and be given a story.
You look at yourself or like.
He wrote.
We have played well only.
And a man.
Since you tell me that one of the age of age alone it will not have done his hair color.
What's the way to change, I come back to the strategies of home at ten years, but he could not do and involve all stakeholders I want to go and see you, after standing, they will know you to help.
My son, another person has been expelled from school, the donations are still a good body and events to go to my son, so that there is a thing that is there but even extra time he added.
He started getting friends, friends, agriculture and wind that are selling.
You need me and also my son to the country, it is still getting a child, they think that whoever doesn't jump and do business arising from the pastor.
With my son to know what she gets to go back until the morning.
The Almighty God speak about it?
To leave that he told me that you will remember that he does not know that those drugs are eight hours.
The day before yesterday.
When a Tanzanian did you know that he was doing so that she is doing so that if it is the end, it is a must that I heard my friend, I want you to know about the car there is your place.
It did not be the accused of the women.
For you to have a long time in which way you have a stand of life life, therefore we make sure you have a good life for your family as for example, a member of parliament is together so as to solve the challenges they help him but he will help him in many fellow youths.
Another he will learn a child like I am a parent of Islam and the concept of saying that you have been living with many son because they know her husband or my mother, I think my husband or my mother who like to go well.
