
He has also been arrested and criticized for the same standards.
Many men call him the king of Glasgow, hip-hop, and Kapona.
But by Kenneth Batuli, popularly known as Razy, she is not the king but he is the founder of this times.
He entered the ring on his new song Ti-Chillah, that caused sexual excitement to a same level and gave them an opportunity to cooperate with some of the artists who are involved in the country like Visezi, Sauti Sol and WWW.
"My cooperation with different artists has contributed to its spherical guidelines, so as' Thanized, so that is what is going on, Dojo Janja.
For seven years now he has blamed her in music here in the country with his efforts to give him different awards, "the year 2008 I won an award of the year 2004 when I won as the best player of the year 2016, with my own kind of year in the awards for those awards," he explained.
But this success has not been able to open mouthed, while others seen as one of the modern musicians who have been condemned and the effects of foreign music.
Speaking to us, he has given his stand about immigrants, while explaining about his music trip which is about to be one of the music.
If they believe that they have criticized the film artists, if you get one of them by lack of creativity in their studies.
The answer, if you feel that is whom they completed the world and making sure that it is their opinion, because I see a lot of criticism you are tired and the importance, and therefore I am criticizing.
Your dear reader was coming out when you are.
The answer is very few when I was born in 2007 when I was playing in the 2-1 club where the music company's music Edson Wilison A.
It has managed to record various crops like 'Ti-Square', 'Usiwe Bubu' and 'Race' and 'Mbambo' among the other things.
The answer to miss every year I make sure that I have one woman and in three or four collaborations, this is a thought that makes him a lot to change, even more.
We thank you more about the own kind of 'Siri ya Mtungi' and 'Follow suit'.
The answer, when I've been cooperating with my brothers and the protocol they were recorded at night, we do not work hard but it has never been a new record but I don't have any new artist in Kenya who has succeeded in doing that.
What does it give you the ability to make these kinds which cause us each other?
The answer to save every day that will look for other people. I am very happy to check the life of every day and make music according to the incident.
I understand that they started singing while in school, this will not give problems with your parents?
The answer of my parents have never thought about doing music and for that I thank you for even if they did not give me the record for recording, they continued with my own dream.
For a long time now it has not been clear that if you have been signed by the Grafro! "It is a member a member.
The answer, I am an artist of Kenya and they have been able to stop these people, but many times you know that, my great responsibility this year is to encourage the musicians of Kenya to know that they are strength and therefore are supposed to get their first identity cards.
At the end of last year they received and went together with children from the estate, Kakingo, and another project is in place?
The answer's answer is very happy and about it is when the other project like this time, I will inform us of the time when the time comes.
When you are when you have a spirit what you put your marriage?
The answer is very soon.
