
A spirit of queen has more than 60 million shillings.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been witnessed, 10th October, 2016.

A resident of queen of England is expected to arrive in the country on April 8 in the year, being preparations for the 21 games of the African Community which will take place in Gold Coast, Australia, from April 4 to 15.

The main race in the country needs more than 60 million shillings so as to make that tour, which may be coming up to Zanzibar if the sponsors will be found.
According to the secretary general of the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Tanzania is among the countries that will go through the queen of Queen, which is received by the head of the country.
'BayArena, he said that preparations for receiving the penalty will start next month when TOC will meet various stakeholders to be able to select the special committee that will expand the coming of that party.
He mentioned some of the stakeholders to be the head of Dar es Salaam province, the mayor of Dar es Salaam province, the commander of the province, office of foreign affairs and many others.
He said that they are capable of sponsors so as to make the coming from that ring, where are needed more than 60 million shillings while the hosts Australia have dropped from 6 million dollars, which is equivalent to 6 million dollars.
'BayArena, he said that those sponsors are expected to be the England embassy, Pepsi Company which will be the last time when it was given a lot, Acacia and ITV television, Azam TV and other media stations.
He said that the major sponsors are together with the British Council, the British ambassador, Pepsi and International Children Organization (UNICEF).
In the year 2014, a gospel singer was killed in the country and rushed to various road in Dar es Salaam city before landing in State House where he was received by the fourth president Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete and later talking to sports members.
That death was special for the games of the African Community which was held in Glasgow, Scotland.
That games will be done in the Gold Coast City, which is in the southern region of Australia cinemas, where this will be the fifth time for Australia to prepare, where it has also been able to prepare for 1938, 1962.
1982 I had gone down with the year 2006 in Melbourne City.
