
A swimming party stopped the seminar of Dar Snowden?
The swimming association in the country (TSA) has praised the Dar Saut Club Club (DSC) by making a seminar to promote the game to players and coaches who had been under the lecturers of Mizinga club in the country of Dubai.
The congratulations were issued by the Secretary General of TSA, Ramadhan Namkoveka just after visiting the training that took place at the swimming primary school grounds in Masaki, Dar es Salaam city.
The training was under the sponsorship of international soccer club of the Central East African Champions League (East Africa) known by the name withheld, popularly known by Dubai, Neermal Boateng.

The training was sponsored by Jihadist companies, Tanzania, for the same time, DSC, the witnesses for the research company and the mining of crude oil and PRocky.
Those students have been able to have a standards of swimmers between the club as well as dealing with various challenges of the game being together with lack of 50 meters loss.
Namkoveka said that they have been happy with the training that caused swimmers between the team's coaches, he said that they have been impressed with how the training were taken and he believes Tanzania will get aroused.
Although, I have been pleased with the way the training were taken and true because I have been able to learn about the upcoming poets who they are starting to learn the game, depending on the understanding of the game and coaches as they are given training, therefore, this is the right way to promote this game.
In the same time, I believe that if these efforts will be continued, Tanzania will be faced with some of the international quality in the coming years, our game needs a lot of support so as to reach the goals, "said Namkoveka.

The coach of Dar Selega and Club, Michael Mungure said that they have got a lot of light in those training that they will use it in developing the game in their club and to the nation in general.
As a period, we have learned how, the skills and several issues of several things related to a swimming game, in short, we got the high speed on teaching for swimmers between the elderly and the ones, the same, he said.
The General Secretary of DSC, Inviolata said that they have managed to put history in the country by giving excuses that it's why they decided to run those training which is being done for the second time.
During the same time, we need support them in this game, the aim is to see what they are getting great development by using the standards, I advise the sponsors and the research of bringing teachers from outside is very big, "said Inviolata said.
