
Government in order to prepare to remove fake products in the country.
Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) for the first time on the night of June 17, this year decided to buy fake phones.
That event has been seen to be heard due to the energy that was used to market the media.
Phone companies have been given the responsibility of switching off fake phones from their customers and its results for one day their phones were removed from communication.
For the work that had a quick loss, we should use those phones because it fell from a camp here in the country, the important thing is that the other phones were sold at a high price.
Starting from different areas including Mtwara, Mwanza, Arusha, Mbeya, Dodoma, Kigoma, Kigoma, and even Katavi were heard as TCRA is why it gives the phones that were allowed to enter the country and sold?
Without doubt, their question was very high and it has not yet been stolen, until now others are asked, how fake phones have been removed from all the shops that do not go again in the country and be sold again in the country.
I don't have sure, but I believe TCRA has its strategies, even so, by considering the real situation of the business that is done in the country, fake phones are faced by the market of many fake products and many believe that the government has accepted because there are some shops that pay taxes TRA.
Many products are together with human drugs and livestock, construction equipment, clothes, shoes, electricity equipment, phone, color, and even the toes.
Likewise, those products are there in the radio, television and even 4 o'clock.
But those fake products are already paid here in the country and they are sold at the streets.
Some of those products include a lot of alcohol that were scored in the air, to go to the air, then basically the fake products are being done by the Tanzania Bureau of Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), there is a great and good efforts that are being done by the Tanzania Bureau of Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA).
What's the reason of existence of many fake products but without doubt, it is a question that needs enough research, but others need to blame the government.
The government has given blame to bless fake products from the fact that it has not done campaign and operation even one year nationally to remove those products.
The government has a lot of servants that they would have been able to participate in counterfeit products, but they buy those products, an issue that shows openly that it is partnership.
In addition, the government has been demanding taxes to the traders that are selling those products.
But different from that view, other people believe that the source of fake products spread in the difficulty of life which affects many.
It is said that we benefit many of the value-easy products to an extent that products with the reality takes high prices, including buyers.
After knowing that weaknesses, big business people in the country have come from business people from outside the country to produce products with low standards so that they can sell.
Therefore, the issue of fake products in Tanzania is a disaster, there is need for the government to prepare well, prevent and implementing fake products that are made outside and even internal products.
The analyst is a journalist of this newspaper in Mbeya Region (47114897).
