
Sumaye when he went to Ukawa through the same time. "
Autoworks and 28, 2015.

A big event in the Tanzanian politics last week was the one of the former prime minister of Tanzania, Frederick Sumaye from the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and joined Ukawa, although she did not want to go to the party to join Lowassa who came from the previous reports of moving to parliament.
Starting from Sumaye, CCM and joined Ukawa, is an event that happened after the former prime minister Edward Lowassa joining Ukawa (CHADEMA) and finally be appointed to be the presidential candidate.
That step by Sumaye bidding farewell to Tanzanian politics in another very high step. It would have been Lowassa only, who the opposition did not say, "
Now he is two musicians to fear among the citizens that they get into the opposition is a dangerous thing and it can cause your things even the private sector will have reduced, if not to stop completely.
For Lowassa to join Ukawa is giving a sign that CCM will have to do extra work in the northern regions of Arusha and Kilimanjaro to get to check the parliamentary seats and the presidential votes since Lowassa and Sumaye are among the politicians who have a huge influence in that area.
However, the speech of Sumaye's speech to join Ukawa has already announced many.
Sumaye did not measure CCM (and I would not be surprised if he would inform you like the natural opponents who believe CCM and his predecessor, Tanaka have not done anything for more than 50 years of its presence.
However, Sumaye has shown displeased with the process of appointment on claims that were given, Professor Mark Mwandosya to be the top leaders of that party already had names which he would make it a best five.
Sumaye also praised Doctor John Magufuli that he is a good leader and a lot of votes passed without giving bribes, although he has a human shortage.
One question that I have been asked, if Lowassa won the CCM ticket, has decided to sign him that when he was called without giving bribes what I have announced and that is why many analysis have already been announced by Sumaye.
On the other side, Sumaye did not see Lowassa in his meeting of announcing Ukawa to join Ukawa, if he said Lowassa would have been a surprise of its kind, although he also joined the Democratic Republic of Ukawa whose candidate is because of his history as a result of the contest.
During the race, Sumaye was quoted by the Revolutionary Party (CCM) to stop announcing his presidential candidate who is using money to serve citizens so as to see them at the general elections of October and that it will be able to see his name.
Some of the politics analysis of politics made the statement that was organized by Lowassa, an issue that even the Mwalimu Nyerere's child, Makongoro in an event during the campaign launch of CCM, Jangwani, in Dar es Salaam, on Sunday.
Another important second in the speech by Lowassa was when he said he had gone to opposition to strengthen CCM and it is not for controlling it and that he believes that he believes that she's going to CCM, they will have his soul so as to win.
But in another second time that has brought the conflict by that case, Sumaye said that he is vying for Ukawa to help in running the government because many of the politicians like not knowing to lead the government.
This statement by some of the analysis, we know if they are facing leaders of the opposition and maybe, instead of building faith in the opposition and maybe, instead of building faith in the public, it can address or reduce that faith, secondly, the statement made it is needed to be CCM - B.
Sumaye did not allow the citizens to inform the citizens that Ukawa without a donation of leaders of its kind, it will not succeed to bring quick changes that are required by the citizens on his words, he said changes will take a very long time.
CCM did not hesitate to use this statement against Ukawa because it is a union of people that do not know how to be taught in loan players from CCM and that there is doubt of the opposition parties.
In my view, after listening to me, the conclusion is that you have arrived in Ukawa by the "Big Results Now" - contrary to his statements they have brought a lot of questions, maybe even when he gives CCM weapons to destroy Ukawa.
