
The preparation of a tree planting exercise.

September 28, 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda, has said that all the preparations of a tree planting trees in Dar es Salaam that will take place on October first this year, have been completed and urged citizens to come out in numbers to climb trees.
Speaking during a visit to visit Ilala district, Dar es Salaam City, Makonda said all the preparations have been completed including the mining of holes, while the water shortage in Dar es Salaam (DAWASCO) have already bought water pipes.
"On October first, first, on the first day of planting trees along with our road, we are urging citizens to come out in the tree in collaboration with the government," said Makonda.
He said the strategy is sustainable of a tree planting trees up to home where the citizens have been urged to rise in trees, Makonda congratulated the District Commissioner of Ilala, Sophia Mjema, and administrative secretary Edward Mpaze.
On his part, the head of Ilala district, Sophia Mjema, said the citizens of Ilala and Dar es Salaam have the responsibility of caring for trees, he said that the modern campaign there is no destruction that took place at Nyerere road where water pipes have been stopped by DAWASCO through the under of irrigation.
At the same time, the campaign for caring for free health in Dar es Salaam that took place at Mnazi Mmoja Grounds, yesterday evening, while more than 12,000 residents come to test their health.
Speaking about the test, Makonda said that the citizens who have contributed to test their health and go to the health centers for the purpose of being given services.
The chief medical officer of Dar es Salaam Province, DfID, Grace Magato, said that in that campaign, many patients who were found were to have a cancer and male gland cancer.
Magato said that due to the great contribution of the health testing and the small diseases managed to sell more than 100 people who were given that service and up to the evening more than 12,000 people were given that service.
