
Marando who is a member of Kikwete Asmara, and he is a suspect.

President Jakaya Kikwete is supposed to be responsible in the scandal of making payments of billions of shillings in the Tegeta Escrow account, Saed Kubenea (he is looking at the picture).

The member of the executive committee (CC) of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Mabere Marando said, President Kikwete, is the one who came to make sure that an amount of 321 billion shillings being transported to cheating.

"Money have been taken to the instructions of President Kikwete so as to enable his party to achieve the campaigns of the general elections this year," explained Marando.

However, Marando said, "we have been told by the people who had tried to join that party, to be a very small part of the money that had been affected by CCM because many of the money have been taken to the family of his president."

The reports indicate that the family of President Kikwete has got more than 9 billion shillings, from a share of money that were displayed in the Escrow account.

"Kikwete knows everything that the recent music, Harbinder Singh Sethi, met the State House with an increase of public funds was planned to State House and it was implemented by directives of the president," he explained.

Reports are saying that if you wait and being called by the government as the new owner of IPTL (PAP), Harbinder Singh Sethi, that he was given the money after being taken to State House and later he was appointed by the governor of BoT, Professor Benno Ndullu said that from the hospital he went to carry out of billions of shillings even without Doctor James Silas.

The scandal of lack of finances in the Escrow account is the one that had given it out of the office, the former minister of energy, Professor Sospeter Muhongo.

Reports are saying, Professor Muhongo, is among the ones that said to benefit from the Escrow money that are owned by Stanbic Bank, another name was mentioned to parliament by one of the opposition members of parliament, Albert Sanga.

Marando said, "together with the resignation of Professor Muhongo, it is still not enough to be interviewed or held by the governor, Minister of Finance, Saada Mkuya, secretary general Ministry of Finance, Doctor Servacius Likwelile together with officers of the state and even the president who was returning to make those funds to be released."

While speaking in faith, Marando said, "the theft started at the State House and took place at the State House and before the eyes of President Magufuli, they have involved some of its officers and even his family."

Doctor Likangara emerged the governor of BoT for the purpose of implementation, instructions of President Kikwete that the money in the Escrow account were not registered in PAP.

He was on his instructions from President Kikwete for releasing his letter on 13 November 2013, which was signed by the secretary of the president, Mister Prosper Alute.
