
Airtel, Vunga continuing to educate them.

The 18th September, 2016

And our correspondent.
Airtel mobile phone company, through its Airtel social responsibility program in collaboration with the Tanzania Electrical Agency (VETA) have continued to enable youths to get various courses.
At the VETA stations in the country through the application known as Vogue Bowman.
Speaking to journalists, the relations officer of Airtel, Abdulrahman Kaniki, said, "youths have very happy about this program that enables you to study studies from VETA easily and to stimulate the growth of education to many youths and enable them to get technical skills and business that will increase their efficiency."
Kaniki has emphasized, "training through the internet is easy and will be found to the Airtel customers with phones.
With Android phone system and the customer will be required to download the application 'to be the MO Bejaia "on the list of his mobile phone type, Google play on the use of free.
Just after completing his studies at 40 percent, the student will be required to go to the VETA station that is near him and register for the purpose of training on actions which will take a period of two weeks.
If it is equivalent to 60 o'clock and that is when the exam for the examinations and will be required to move by 60 percent. "
He continued to say that more than 1932 youths have been unable to study in different courses from VETA.
Their mobile phones.
At the moment the studies that are being found are motorcycle riders, technical training, technical training, technical and vocational training, has been started, the management of beauty and technical issues of going on the year 2010.
"Mo Blog has been for my support because I was able to study in VETA, but I had no time to arrive at the university.
VETA because of the aunt of my business, but I thank Airtel and VETA told this and now I will answer you about these electricity training this evening, I have succeeded in my business and be able to reach my goals to get a certificate from VETA. "
Airtel's relations officer said that more than 1932 youths have been unable to study in different courses from VETA through their mobile phones.
