
Kuwait has been welcomed at the central railway.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published on 28th October, 2016.

The successor to King of Abu Dhabi and the acting president, Mohamed Abrini has promised to continue improving the relationship between that country and Tanzania in helping the implementation of development projects.

That promise to elect the king of Abu Dhabi has been released yesterday at State House in Dar es Salaam city by the executive director of Abu Dhabi Development Fund, Mohamed Al Suwaidi, who met and had talks with President John Magufuli who was also welcoming the nation at the central railway.
Abu Dhabi Development Fund is partnering with Tanzania in the implementation of various projects and in talks between yesterday, the director of Al Suwaidi has shown a lot of efforts to cooperate with Tanzania in areas of cooperation that had been given priority by the director as well as the construction of infrastructure including road and roads, air travel and minerals.
Together with thanking the successor to King, President Magufuli has invited the country through its fund and other development stakeholders to invest in the country in development projects.
Those projects are the construction of the port, construction of industries, agriculture, fishing, gas and cooperation in the construction of central railway which will look for other seven countries of East and Central Africa which have no port.
"Tanzania has decided to build a central railway to a modern level (standard cost) and already in our budget we have set aside 1 trillion shillings for the purpose of starting the construction, the development fund for Abu Dhabi to cooperate with us," said President Magufuli.
He added that Tanzania has been partnering with various stakeholders and still the partnership is still needed because of investment areas are many, an example in the road construction.
Moreover, President Magufuli urged the fund to investigate the time being used in the process of starting implementation of projects so as to speed up its results and benefit to the citizens.
