Our Wildlife Conservation Area has given a difficult question of asking themselves as a nation.
Sei 22, 2016.

I have read the articles of the writer that came from the newspaper last week, that is concerning the Selous Wildlife Conservation to be in danger of being removed from the list of UNESCO as one of the inheritance of the world.

The important question to ask for you as a nation at the moment, which one should be better, to remain in the Selous National park, which is sustainable economy for the sake of allowing the mining of minerals that will affect the mining of land and water for a long time?

Africa has a lot of opinions, but the biggest wildlife in South Africa is the truth, that our country has been born to have a lot of 50,000 dollars, including land disputes, forestry, diabetes, and illegal immigrants in the Indian Ocean.

That is the size of Selous Wildlife Conservation to be similar to the size of Rwanda and Burundi together with Rwanda (26,338-Square) and Burundi (23-Square).

This farm is aired in Ruvuma provinces, Lindi, Morogoro, and Pwani provinces, was officially started in the year 1896 and the Germany being the first wildlife in Africa followed by the purpose of protecting the wildlife.

Due to the importance of the Selous National park in 1982, the United Nations organization dealing with culture and science issues, UNESCO was listed the Selous Wildlife Conservation to be one of our country's origin and it is something to be proud of.

For sure, the Selous Wildlife Conservation has a great importance for us to be bad, as it is with the elephants of Selous conservation, it has been seen due to the wealth of the animals which have already been seen as the wildlife that poured.

As such, the mining of minerals of the sun will affect all creatures of land and water, even though the air crafts have flooded water catchment areas of Malawi, in Karoli, along the Lake Nyasa to reduce water which have already been affected by the blood poured.

Basically the mining of drugs have great and health effects to human rights and other creatures to them in the sun and without doubt, our government of the fifth term is keen and can take action to maintain the inheritance of the fifth term and of generations.

And as we remember, that we have even the law that brings us all those who participated to allow the mining law of land, natural resources and environment for the year 2013 / 2014 that was issued by the former chairman of the committee, James Lembeli has revealed that since the establishment of the wildlife law of the year 2009, it has noted that the government's parliamentary committee has already enabled the mining of minerals from the Selous National Park.

Together with that this decision has a productivity to the nation, the parliamentary committee has advised the government to be careful in addressing this issue with the aim of preventing great effects which can come out later, not only for human resources but also in the parliamentary committee of parliament, land, natural resources and environment, 2013 / 14.
