Babu Tale, our poverty and FGM?
Mr 24, 2016.

I want to come out to write news about the treatment that took place at Loliondo village in Samvillage, in the year 2010 / 2011 famous as a cup for Babu.
At the same time, there was a retired Pastor of KKKT church for the name Ras Makunja, in the Loliondo village, Arusha province claimed to be given the ability to make diseases.
He claimed that the Almighty God created a dream of giving instructions since the year 1991 regarding the treatment of big diseases like diabetes, cooking, cancer and AIDS.
He claimed that the dream continued to come from every time since that time when it reached on the 26th of August, we had to start treatment at the 26th of August, but we had decided to start treatment.
It is known that our country has many poor people and still the health services have not arrived for all people with many people, especially in the villages, they still believe that the traditional medication can be done because of poverty and also a shortage of poor health services offered by the government.
If there is a person in the Loliondo land kind, with an affordable housing, a cheap thing, is easy for the poor and the rich follow it because of the hope of getting good treatment.
These days, there is a new disease of "Rastafarians alone," that people want jokes, to get your wealth, education quickly and everything done, it is a problem to our country and people do not want to do research, to study hard and learn about their problems.
It is this new disease that did even the rich and people with the ability to come to Babu.
On the instructions of Pastor Mwasumilwe, that treatment was given due to a tree that is called Mugenda Zoka who also thanked the Maasais', Oliver Wema and antibij and Somaga!
Maybe, it's been used to pay for patients after being waited for God and then it was revealed for one hour and it was married and later gets married to patients, it was a must that the medicine was a must to be given by Babu Tale and to take him too.
After a short time, the treatment report of a cup for grandfather was evident in the whole country with the neighboring countries of people with thousands started having gathered at Loliondo Town, different leaders of the party and the government are also heading to that area.
Some of them are the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ezekiel Maige, who arrived to witness, giving instructions and even receiving a cup.
Others are experts from the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Muhimbili National Hospital, Experts from the University of Dar es Salaam and the Institute of natural medicine in Muhimbili.
In Finland you will be known professionally, it will realize that between that tree has poison but the level that was in the cup, does not have a bad dangers to the human health.
Some of the witnesses who saw the cup they confessed to get affordable, although it's not difficult for example, Doctor Richard Ole Nkingwa, some of the drugs and he went to control his health in Germany, he found his sugar back on a normal level.
Patients were forced to use drugs, doesn't use drugs (IMEI) and thus endangering their lives, many doctors of the government had doubt if the medicine has the ability to treat sexually transmitted diseases as seen.
At the same time, the medical experts did not confirm the ability of the medicine for treating diseases which were stolen from one cup.
In this environment, Pastor Mwasumilwe asked the government to make sure that at least seven days in order to reduce the series of people and those vehicles was on March 26th, 20.
He also warned that small patients who are in the hospital should not wait and be brought to him again.
The pastor advised the District Council for Ngorongoro to review the fees for cars and also the road heading to Shamsa, to be improved and construction of toilets in order to maintain the large number of people should be done well.
The Provincial Commissioner of Arusha while the time he met with those recommendations of the pastor who passed.
The opposition against the cup's treatment started and they were unblocked by the Bishop Zakaria Kakingo, on the argument was that the medicine was able to attract resources in the area where he was behind.
For example, the congestion of patients who would have in the ward or enable them to improve the road, in the vehicles, at the place of sleep and get food.
This issue was also occurred in Ireland, where the pastor of strength and faithful have tried to align the availability of ten million pounds in the year 1980, it gives the servants of the plane to prevent it, "virgin".
