
Police in Kibondo district had been taken to the mental hospital after falling for him.

A big businessman of Nairobi, Paul Wandili, yesterday morning was arrested and later taken to hospital for mental investigation after starting him, claiming he is the one who had flooded the scene, Raila Odinga, her child who was the prime minister, Raila Odinga.
The businessman who lives in Rift Valley area in Nairobi city was arrested near the River Market, he started working closely saying he knew the way he dies.
Previously the police were said Mister Shogholo Msangi was arrested due to his behavior of violence together with the claims he made to have news about the death of Dar es Salaam.
Later, the deputy inspector general of police, Samuel Mkingie has made a different report saying, "we did not want to confirm that Mister Shogholo Msangi, who is one of the physically challenged people after starting to see them when he died.
In the month of September last year, Mister Kibondo district arrived at the Nation radio station and claimed that they were faced with events that he had killed in the hotel of Ostana, the Langoni Area, where they identified himself and put up a ring.
Mister Nguji, who is also known as Paul Mbunga was mentioned in the 392 page report of the United Nations concerning the gold scandal of Congo.
A rumor about the famous businessman who turned up after being found with a big gun shot in July last year after beating him a gun and killing a man at the Parade area.
One of the gun was inside his car which was forced to boycott the police station after he was bringing about violence in one attack in Langoni Area, on Wednesday night.
Mister Shogholo Msangi has gone down in the city with a convoy of the vehicles that were being beaten.
On the case of July, the officer shot him a person who claimed to be a bandit at the Llongero road, after that incident that allows him to be presented in the office of the director of public servants giving direction.
In relation to the incident, the police spokesperson, ZhongCheng Sonero has said that investigation did not mention some of the things that he found in the report of Mister Shogholo Msangi and needed more investigation.
Kyerwa district said that one of the suspects was defeated in the phone but he stopped him and killing one man by scoring for him and they can't be found.
Investigation on the body of the deceased showed that he had been shot dead twice, one when he did not lie.
