
Don't know the reasons that contribute to lack of dirty places.
The pain that comes from which is transmitted by the bacteria are usually popular as the sun.
Doctor Shame.
Recently, the readers look at the questions and opinion polls, I have contributed to some questions that have seen through the phone number one, I don't have a question like what I am doing so that I am getting a question like this and I think about what is like this, I explained how to get a question like this.
The answer is very my condolences, as usual you sell food with color, which usually don't like to inform you, they don't have the smell to follow up according to their appearance as a day you can change to how the age is going on.
Due to your information, it means that you are not normal since it is pregnant because it is your symptoms of the FGM?
This problem can be self-infectious diseases by using FGM? I advise you to participate in the health services that are in the neighboring country because of the investigation is caused by the danger of the problem and to confirm the problem.
A question: Doctor Magufuli, my condolences and responsibilities, my wife depends with the problem of V.
He has been receiving a copy of the Power Breakfast show with the tablets that surround him, where this problem involves itself, but you never happened again.
I request your support to you, in my wife to use what drugs or the way to enable him to recover this problem?
The answer Miss Vaquina, his meaning is an error in the sniffing / normal because there are different reasons that can contribute to the lack of such acts including the presence of major things like pads and cotton, which is transmitted by the virus.
The bacteria of bacterial infections which are very attractive, don't jump and whoever doesn't know where stem cells should not be demolished quickly by fungus can be creative by fungus.
The pain that comes from which is transmitted by the bacteria are usually famous as the fish, which usually comes after sex and you can have a blue color or blood.
If you are HIV infection, what I have explained in the first question, which is transmitted by a bad luck, that is usually very much and if you are infected with a bad luck, sexually transmitted diseases, stomach, and sores.
In the way it asked with your instructions it is possible that you have a mixture of sin?
I advise you to go to the health centers of the district or hospitals in the province because there are special departments of those diseases which are the correct guidelines for the treatment and that loss can be taken because of testing and testing.
Remember the diseases are supposed to have all two partners, you are participating in a wedding act so as to avoid the problem and return it.
The act of marriage does not be distributed to the first until the treatment will be completed and they feel completely.
A question, Doctor I am one of the patients in kidney transplantation, my kidneys have died without work, I have when I get treatment at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) to protect my blood.
My question is this, so I can get HIV infection if the machine has been used by another patient?
The answer, right now health experts have been keen with the machine of removing waste in blood which are known as Diaries of taking the special system of preventing and preventing the spread of diseases.
One caution is that one of the existence of two machines that are used by those who do not have HIV infection, and the others are used by the victims.
Likewise, the patient before being given treatment is tested for different tests to identify if he has infection, including VVU, fever, (IAGRI) and syphilis completely.
Therefore, I should not understand the fear that a warning has been taken to prevent HIV virus and AIDS virus, therefore make sure they are given to the treatment that you have been given.
A question, I am a young man of more than 30 years, I have been very happy for a long time now I don't know the desire to make them get a lesson.
The answer is one of the national campaign about the chest is that when it comes out of more than two weeks, it is good to arrive in health services.
The aim is to have ever been built on treatment before more effects are coming out and also to prevent the spread of tuberculosis in the community.
Coughing, for more than two weeks professionally, it means that the problem has been sent in a long time or a problem has become chronic.
Reasons for the very long time is proud of together with chest, shivered, a bomb attack that was caused by fungus.
Likewise, there are other problems that contribute to the danger including the use of drugs to reduce blood pressure diseases which have been able for short, breast cancer, a heart problem and the existence of things including food and waste away.
I advise you to change in health services so that they can get advice, investigation and treatment that are expected to be done on different tests including an amount of red-infectious diseases.
A question is when a man will masturbate from time to time can get that disease if the others want to masturbate.
The answer is effects of doing that action, they still have a lot of discussion and there is no effects, but this is no effects, but when you are doing for a long time and by using a speed or a lot of strength it can have effects of mental disabilities (Eve).
The effects of physical and cold drinks and offloading capacity, get married or faults that brings pain, bad pain, being a bit due to many people's disappearance.
The mental effects are very big that can be according to a situation of lack of feelings of a human being that is why using the girl child, this is because of the body to be satisfied with that way.
Another problem is to have succeeded to arrive here, not getting top, getting tired early and lack violence to get the desire of a normal act, thus the reduction of male strength.
I urge them not to prevent us until it will get your running mate, and failed then do not make that action against them.
