The members of parliament want Kariakoo to be a free area.

It has been written by our journalists, Dodoma.

It has been witnessed, 03 / 2016.

The government has been advised to make sure the area of Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam being a free area of business, where that will do the area will not be paid taxes, but it will benefit from that area because it will be a tax payment.

It has been explained that the step will help to attract small business people to continue working and grow business, that advice was presented to parliament yesterday by the member of parliament for Kigoma Town, Zitto Kabwe, contributing to the proposed debate of the national development plan for the year 2017 / 2018.
He said small business people in Kariakoo area are for a time and they do not understand about this period of transition as to Tanzania of industries.
"We want to get these skills to be able to climb business by making Kariakoo Free Market, (a free area of business)," said Zitto Kabwe.
Recently, the Member of Parliament for Nzega Town, Hussein Bashe, spoke about the issue and urged the government in implementing its next plan, it was set up in Kariakoo area as a free area of business and all products that will be paid for tax, but they get to be free.
Bashe, as he touched on Zitto Kabwe, he wanted the government to involve yourself with projects that will involve local traders as the project of China products that had been planned to be built in Kurasini area.
That Kurasini project last year did not have been received by the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), the union of traders in Tanzania (JWT) and other stakeholders on claims that it will use business of small business people.
In another step, the Member of Parliament of Mtambile district, Masoud Abdallah Salim (CUF), contributing to the program yesterday, he urged the government to improve water transport from Dar es Salaam to the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara so as to remove the citizens the problems of depending on the road transport.
