The councilors' care of gas, oil.

It has been written by Hassan Simba, Mtwara.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

The councilors of Mtwara District Council in Mtwara province has been able to be given training on the services generated from gas and oil resources.

The training was given yesterday by the non-governmental organizations of Mtwara Province (left) by partnering with Forum Forum with the aim of building their ability to the councilors in order to supervise their directors to collect tax generated from that resources.
Apart from the councilors' participation in the training, also leaders of the villages in the villages and other development stakeholders in that council have got an opportunity to participate in the training so as to enable that education to spread in the community at all levels of the villages.
The acting executive director of that council, Kibuko Mwanjisi has commended the efforts and urged the delegates to be good ambassadors in their areas by continuing to provide the education fully in order for every citizen to get information and good understanding about the process of construction.
While presenting the topic, the coordinator of that project from Forum Forum, Richard Manyota, said that in research conducted by the left wing by partnering with the institution, it shows that there is a decrease of small laws governing the collection and service charges in the concerned company.
Furthermore, in the procedure of providing gas and oil from the ground, there is a level that the council is required to get in accordance with the procedures that are 43 percent, but the stakeholders have not explained an issue that is supposed to sustain their revenue collection.
The executive director of the organization, Alpha Abdallah called for the council and the government in general to follow up the process of gas that is going on in the province and it is good for the leaders to put everything open in the community including the provision of education especially the whole issue of charges.
