
Namaingo, servants and strategies to enable entrepreneurs.

October 4, 2016.

In addition to being seen as the solution of many, not all of them get in business usually do.
Research show that many businesses that are being started have died in one year after the establishment.
Many businesses have died due to lack of important education in relation to business and entrepreneurship.
Most of the people that are going to the business who are struggling to look at each other is what other people do and do so.
The Namaingo Business Agency company that was started in the year 2012 under its director Dudu Baya has prepared itself in agriculture, business and providing education services, advice and expertise and opportunities of getting capital, markets, and expertise to enable a citizen in poverty, until now it has branches in 11 provinces in the country.
The opportunities offered by the Namaingo Company, include farming, farming, agriculture, agriculture, rearing chicken, rearing chickens in color, rearing chicken, rearing chicken and rearing livestock.
The General Manager of that company, Augustine Owino, says that in order to be a member of the company and given capital, it is a must to be supported by the Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), NSSF, and the business number of CRDB Bank, NMB together with being connected to the UTT-AMIS bank.
He says Manufacturing Company has collaborated with various stakeholders who include Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB), CRDB, UTT-AMIS, National Examinations Council (ACT), BRELA, TRA, NSSF, health insurance and other various stakeholders.
Namaingo Company is under the truth and together with them, it is true that it is possible, therefore it is the responsibility of every Tanzanian to take this opportunity, "he says.
About the research project, that was launched recently, Owino, says that the big water project in Majohe Warioba Area, Ilala Municipality, Dar es Salaam will benefit more than 1000 entrepreneurs.
He says that the project will involve more than small and big entrepreneurs and that they are not involved with the local and international market.
He says that those entrepreneurs who basically are members of the Namaingo, they do not have any problems in the internal and international market.
He wanted that before an entrepreneur to start that project they will be required to participate in the training that are given by the company until it affects the project rules and requirements.
According to the distribution of Namaingo Company, every entrepreneur in the project will be able to bring an amount of 48 million shillings to 60 million shillings for a year because of the number of drugs that he will be taught.
They are saying that those who will find themselves in that village is a type of Vicente Calderon, and New Zealand which have the ability to give four children to 12 children every after three months while its meat was sold at shillings 8 hours for one hour.
