So of Jesus Christ, citizens of Butiama village in Bagamoyo district in Pwani province are supposed to be a big wind power project, in Mpanda area where the investment is expected to own twenty thousand shillings and four people from which they will be welcomed to them.
While speaking at the Azam Complex meeting suffering from various leaders including the chairman of CCM, Bagamoyo district, gave those citizens not to leave the areas because they were not involved in their areas because they were not involved in their areas.
Also, our time to give a lot of a way to live, because she is wrong, he said that the situation is bad and that is why he is wrong.
When the real government is the colonial era, most of us come from going back to the colonial era, do not know that?
There we arrived at the police but not.
It's not many people now and it's not the reason we think that he will not tell another one to be the player me.
Only if you should happen?
Is an entrance to be the second.
You miss.
Things that can be avoided today seems to be like in the bridge, I'll get to charge the child.
Others in the picture are not happy that we have three people but we were not involved with them together.
.
Now they were awarded that decision, it does not make sure that it will be a good example, it will not be good for putting up on his side, the chairman of Bagamoyo District, and we see those citizens want their rights to be transferred to the objectives of the project.
Here, the citizens was still underway.
There are a lot of words also after sprinkling of the citizens, they will continue to do but for agriculture and comes back but agriculture for investors.
When they end there is to pay their rich people, those who live and investors you know they use their crops because they have the requirements of the market because they have not thought the investors are saying that investors will face bad people but not to sit down.
But also to remove the candidates that if they have changed it is unacceptable, and said that vegetables there and you said champions from work.
When the village's meeting was warned that most of us think that I was.
For people who are representing some of the councilors, it means that it is required is to have a great leader to Nicki Minaj from the Bagamoyo district, to give you a chance or to the right is Mabeste with the Thirion.
.
