The Ambassador of America in a black bikini, has given a donation of one hundred million shillings and one for ten thousand groups here in the country that are concerned with various community issues including raising orphaned children and living in the environment.
Difficult and news questions, speaking in front of the press in a brief ceremony to hand over, the topic has said people will continue to ban the government's efforts to help our community development so as to help the goals they had put in place for getting development, our writer is safe and he had gone to go.
The American Embassy in Dar es Salaam city have met the ambassador of Vatican in the country we shall continue with journalists and come out of ten people and moved out of the way they are doing, together with the use of this medicine to build our children for the provision of legal assistance.
First, he died is to support the efforts that are being done by the high group and said that America will continue to cooperate with various institutions in the country.
Kamoga wants firefighting efforts and not many people, we are pleased to have cooperation of development issues and various institutions of Tanzania.
I want to thank you the availability of many projects that we have especially that enables the wife or a child.
But it is to look for the message I feel extremely honored every time I get this opportunity.
And the message themselves is that no boundaries.
Without their talents and contributions from women.
Ben Pol did not see three thousand shillings in the university.
But at the research that got that donation, I talk about the challenges that he met with in providing its services to the community.
There are a lot of youths that you affect so much especially the female children I want to meet, we decided to go.
To know, I will start the fifth graduation.
And we are building so much.
Therefore all the charges we agreed that they will be living.
School teachers in order to avoid various donations they have to get.
I think together with pregnancy and also lack of corruption.
Some of the people who live in prison.
That donation is big for the purpose of children who live in difficult environments that are orphaned children.
It's not expected by the family that and they do so say it has great ability but these pictures have faith that I will help them by buying.
For contributing to the contributions are needed in school to help them get important treatment in rural areas and many centers that are not used as required to contribute to the cost of treatment.
If you eat the ambassador of America has been initiated and approximately four and six years and up to now, more than twenty groups are very high to benefit and to negotiate with the value of American dollars but a lot of money will be known through my class and is called his boss at the time.
