
"We have reached JKT self-employed.

It has been written by Fadhili Abdallah, Kigoma.

It has been published in September 2016.

Kigoma Regional Commissioner, Brigadier General, Emmanuel Maganga, has urged the youths that complete the training in various fields of the National Housing Corporation (JKT) in the country, the training will be able to be self-employed and start various activities of property production.

Maganga said that at JKT Ruvu camp, a squad of 821 squad where youths who finished form six that finished their training in accordance with the law known as operation was appointed.
In a speech given on behalf of Kasulu District Commissioner, Flaviana Matata, said that the report given by the head of the camp and issues of those graduates shows that during their time the camp they have received high education.
He urged the youths to be ready to work wherever they will be able to work, after the training or after finishing their studies they start from there.
Maganga urged the youths to enter into nation-building activities because of various training they received including integrity, patriotism and other training, instead of getting into politics with violence that will not be productive to their future lives.
The representative of JKT Ruvu in the country, Philipo Mangula said that due to the importance of the training, especially to the youths that complete form six and expected to join colleges or different employment, the government will continue to set aside money for the purpose of that training, since its benefits is high than the cost used.
He said in addition to building the body by building a mental disabilities, building a mental health, they have already worked in any place, but also building a foundation of patriotism and to be able to use the youth especially in protecting the peace of the country.
Previously the head of JKT Ruvu camp, Mohamed Janabi said that 1,215 youths have completed the training out of 1,175 youths who started training.
He said that in that period they were able to set aside 200 acres of maize, 60% of vegetables as well as 10 compared to vegetables and fruits.
