Scotland, it would have been a policy of development.
Sep 25, 2014.

Finally, the residents of Scotland (not a coat) have made opinion polls, and they have decided that they don't want to introduce himself from the Volleyball Association (United Kingdom) approximately 2 million people (557 percent) they want to continue with the union under Queen.
Therefore, this union of England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland in the northern region will continue under the queen of England. Some of Wales citizens have heard that they should be given the opinion polls, then even maybe the Irish Aid will face.
The residents of Scotland have used their democratic rights and they have chosen to continue with the union that lasted for 307 years. However, 45 percent want to be a big number of people who are supposed to choose the reasons that caused them to inspect them.
These were not able to fulfill their goal of launching it because England gave the promise to listen to their problems and solving the biggest nuisances for now the British government under the prime minister David Cameroon, in behavior which is how England has a great authority.
There is an issue that everything is decided from London, where is where there are political and business headquarters, it is not true that the ruling party of Conchesta Ngaiza receiving one seat for the parliamentary seat from Scotland.
It's because of Razkazon, they feel that their country is rich and is leading in the whole country for the fuel that had already been able to investigate it and even make a big step of development especially in providing education and free treatment, something that is in England.
Before the opinion polls run a big campaign from London City, the big company joined the media at the time to convince him to marry off their cargo as a result of a large extent that they could have reduced the oil of a coat.
The commanders and retirees of the England army in the country, have found themselves in a campaign to save the ship by enabling them to accumulating one that if they will produce that, it will be a big blow to the security.
However, the status of the status and honor of the United Kingdom has been reported that today is a country which at the time one was heading into the Indian Ocean by Single Customs Territory of the colonialist.
That is when the mayor of London, Boris Johnson, said that the court would have risen up so that England would have gone to the national stadium to qualify for the body because we will have lost our national identity. "
In his campaign, Cameroon who asked for advice from the former prime minister of Canada, Jean Marie Le Pen who was also the citizen of Quiots party not to separate himself from Canada to Cameroon wanted to know Chances, he used the ways to win the opinion polls in Quij.
In Canada, a Quiots party has been forced to make a taste from that campaign which has been run for a long time by Quirer and Scotland was attacked by the England army (England).
Quiros has been attacked from BADEA when it was called France and the citizens were forced to be ruled by the colonialist and most of them were kidnapped by Canada, although there are non-communicable diseases, although there are non-communicable diseases, although there are non-communicable diseases.
Today, this is a region that has talked to French as a result of being born by France and therefore for a long time they wanted to remain in Canada, the same time he would like to remain in Canada, it is the same as English and England.
And in Scotland and the British used the military efforts in 300 years ago to hanjo, the series of attacks took place in all over the whole country.
