

By Amina Omari, Tanga.
Despite the road infrastructure, the road infrastructure is still needed because of its importance especially in enabling transportation.
Many cargo that are being transported with arrest, should be inside or out of the country, can be transported through road ways and to remove traffic congestion in the port as it is now.
Transportation of the vehicle don't have an importance in transportation because one vehicle can carry up to 50 containers, with a length of 40 million shillings per time, so as to make transportation and reduce the cost of transport.
President Doctor John Magufuli promised to strengthen the railway network as he did on the road while being the minister of construction.
As it is together with confirming the producers of the industries in the country to use the internet to be safe and even outside, so as to control the road destruction but to reduce the cost of transportation.
That promise has started to be implemented after recently a company of Tanga Cement to sign an agreement on an agreement with Tanzania Railways Limited (TRL) to transporting 35,000 tons of cement in the railway.
Those agreements that were witness with the minister of construction, transport and communication, Professor Makame Mbarawa, took place at the factory located in Tanga.
Those agreements will expand the journey of TRL in the city of Tanga and gave the company the solution to transportation of bags of cement which is produced by the factory at an affordable cost.
Minister Mbarawa says that through that offense, TRL has written the new history by starting with transporting a big cargo of a cargo as there in the past.
He is saying for a period of more than five years since going back to that organization, has been causing the transportation of 150,000 tons to shillings per year.
"Therefore for the transportation of 35,000 tons in this month, it will have the ability to cater for 420,000 tons that is big to have been transported with that organization for a long period," says Professor Mbarawa.
He is saying that through that offense, the organization is expected to make a cost of 40 million shillings for transporting a cargo of cargo from Tanga, Kigoma, Mwanza and Mwanza.
"The aim of the government is to enable our industries to produce in large numbers but also to put better infrastructure that will enable products to get the consumer and at an affordable cost so as to redeem our citizens economically," he says.
And the Acting Director General of TRL, Masanja Kadogosa said that the agreement will enable its organization to transporting cargo of cement which are studying in the factory easily and to distribute them on different areas.
He says that the step is part of the implementation that was started in the year 2014 / 15 whereby the cement factory was able to transporting 44,000 tons through the railway.
Therefore, following the increase in mind, the organization has enabled to set aside five units in the train and one of the cargo of cement.
"We are expecting to sell a bag of cement more than 20,000 tons per month from the factory up to Kigoma and 437 tons from Mwanza," said Kadogosa.
He says that the factory will have reduced the availability of big goods and on issues that will benefit the customers of that company and federations.
That director has asked the company to pay the cost of transportation in time so as to help that organization to provide better services.
On his part, the Executive Director of that company, Reinhardt Swart, says that the agreement will enable the transporting of 35,000 tons of water which is a total of 105 tons produced through the factory for a month.
