
There are some Young Africans a long time you need me.
It hurts so as to hear a small young man with a high-quality talent as Young Dee who has resolved to be shot in the use of drugs.
For a long time now, it has been a rumor that he is using those drugs, but he has been looking for a lot of power, he could make sure that it may be identified, it may have been said about it is true.
It has been happy that he has decided to agree that he is using drugs and promised to change while refusing it is a big problem than using it themselves.
This is a good step and be used for example to all those who said that they are self-employed in this evil actions, instead of preventing and we help him in his journey to stop for slavery.
When the people have started writing a finger to have another job of fighting with the truth when you confirm to the world that he does not use drugs.
Drugs is to stop using flour and it's not knowing when you use it, most of the people live in search for the time they use it.
The whites are saying that 'it's' Matter in of time '. It's just a time that you will cause a lot of things spoken about things and different people.
News of Ray C using drugs have participated in the spread of the little of the same time, thus the era of the era, Msafiri Diaries of Family, Wanu Da Hustler Dancers from many others.
All they refused and yet were that they were telling them more than they could not agree with the truth.
The use of drugs is the same as to climb the Mnazi Mmoja in a house, there is a day that I have been put up by people outside the past.
There are artists and many people, the ones being mentioned to use drugs, if it is a rumor or the UK then the time will decide the fate of these diseases.
Very big that they are going to consider the suspects, if they use what they want to stop depending on the fact that they are using anything related to the fact that there are different ways in order to stop what they performed in the medical centers.
Also, they should stop following the trend, it appears that many will land there and after three years from now, medical equipment will involve artists.
