
22 followers that CUF put in the case of weapons.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

22 followers of the group of "Blue Guy 'of the Civic United Front (CUF) have been promoted to the dock at Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court in Dar es Salaam while facing four charges including being found with the police force.

The students who are the residents of Zanzibar had arrived in the court yesterday by being unable to vote by the government's lawyer Patrick Mwita, before the resident magistrate, Godfrey Simbeye.
Mwita claimed that the students are faced with four charges of causing conspiracy, to intervene in criminal responsibilities as well as being found with weapons and equipment for the police force.
While reading the charges, lawyer Mwita claimed that between September 20 and 25, this year, between Zanzibar and Dar es Salaam, through the Blue Pearl Hotel, they did not be arraigned in court made a plot to employ people who do not work against the law of criminal offenses.
He continued to claim that, they are members of the Blue Pearl Hotel who joined the people for the purpose of doing the ongoing work against the law.
Lawyer Mwita claimed that on September 25, this year at Mwananyamala area, Dar es Salaam, with the aim of doing mistakes, they have been buried and who were found dead with weapons contrary to the law, including five units, together with a bomb attacks.
In addition, it is alleged that the day before yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the accused who were found dead with the police force which are bomb attacks used by the army in their responsibilities.
After going to him, the charges were forced to do those mistakes, even so lawyer Mwita claimed that the investigation of that case is not complete and requested for votes to be released on the other of the being mentioned.
On the side of defense, wisdom, you requested the court to eliminate the third position in those mistakes because it has a legal shortage of using some words.
However, lawyer Mwita asked the court to raise us from the request because it has no shortage any problem instead, they have used the Swahili language.
Judge Lubuva said that after going through the sections of the law, he has noted that it has no legal measures so he has cast their applications.
In addition, he said those accused will get bond if they will fulfill the conditions of having two major sponsors who will sign a certificate of two million shillings each one, to present their identity cards in court.
The suspect is Hamis Omary Said (49), Said Mohamed Zito (57), Hamid Saleh Ally (34), Juma Humud Ally (34), Juma Hamad Juma (21), Juma Hamad Juma (21), Juma Hamad Juma (21), Juma Hamad Juma (21), Juma Hamad Juma (21), Juma Hamad Juma (21), Juma Hamad Juma (21), Juma Hamad Juma (21), Juma Hamad Rashid (21), Juma Hamad Juma (21), Juma Hamad Rashid (21), Juma Hamad Juma (21) and Masoud Rashid (21).
Others are Jecha Salim Juma (40), Mbaruku Hamis (43), Mohamed Ally Juma (27), Mohamed Ally Juma (35), Mohamed Ally Juma (35), Ally Ally Juma (22), Haji Juma Ally (28).
Being taken to court for those accused arising from the crisis that is going on in that party on September 28 this year, the police commander of the special unit of Dar es Salaam, Simon Sirro gave the arrest of those followers on the allegations of organizing a plot for violence and passing CUF offices located in Buguruni in Dar es Salaam city.
