
Women are looking at home in marriage.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

Many women are still continuing to get married in their marriages including being involved in their rights immediately after the death of their husbands.

In addition, the couple have been emphasized to write a rumor, so as to eliminate disruptions to one of them when he dies and leave children, they were unable to stop the support they were affected by their parents.
That call was given at the end of the week by women from various African countries in the African Union conference that included women and small-scale farmers.
Those women who were able to climb Mount Kilimanjaro as they were able to climb Mount Kilimanjaro for giving their pain of living in different property, said women are the pillars of the family but still they are continuing to get the occasion and their husbands.
One of the women from the country, Leah Kihimbi said that the villages in the villages are getting problems due to being beaten by different meanings in their husbands because they are unable to say on state organs for the fear being left to their loved ones and they failed to serve children.
"Some of the herbal medicines are preventing and sometimes as a husband has written you, then you don't know you or who are why we are going to court, we request my fellow women to see their rights and go and go to court," he said.
And the partner of that conference from Kenya, MHudugu Ng'amilo said that he has seen his pain in his heart by climbing Mount Kilimanjaro because she has decided to give his voice in his heart by her husband and her husband, therefore he has decided to speak his voice so that the world can be in order to help the women they love.
The chairman of the land commission from Kenya, Professor Godius Kahyarara has said that he has made a cry for those women and promised to give birth certificates for the purpose of fighting for the wealth that she does not have their husbands.
The Director of TGNP, Lilian Liunda, said that the conference aimed at bringing the voice of women in Africa together to represent the resolutions of African women, about what they want to defend and protect the rights of land and bring change by protecting the development of women in the African countries including Tanzania.
