TRA and he is not in a trap.
Dec 80, 2015.

Among the senior leaders of the country who succeeded to remove the concerned countries from a certain level of economy to the next higher level is together with the 42 president of America, Bill Clinton, who led the country from the year 1993 to 2001, putting a good record for success in the economy.
The great economic policy that was recognized by the name of Clatchy Marx which was charged with great success in the economy of that nation, the nation's income (GDP of America) has increased from 66 percent from 56 percent.
The economy of that nation was on a four percent rate in the year compared to an average of 28 percent in the previous years before his rule was stated that, the country's economy was to put a unique record in the history of that nation by being able to grow fast for 116.
He was able to make more than 225 million shillings as a large number of employment which is mentioned to have ever happened in one administration (single bus).
The employment problem in the United States, under Clinton was built on a huge level compared to 30 years before his administration, that is from 69 percent in the year 1993 to 4 percent in January 2001.
The inflation rate of a high level has explained that it never happened so, since the administration of President John Magufuli, Doctor John Pombe Magufuli was the former President of the United States, who passed away from January 19th to November last year when they were killed by 47 percent in the previous administration up to 25 percent.
The ownership of residence in the Clinton administration was surprised by 677 percent until when he was heading to step down, it explained that it is a record of its big type to that nation.
However, the amount of poverty has reduced from 157 percent in the year 1993 to 78 percent of the year 1999 and it was revealed that it is a unique record in a period of approximately 30 years in the previous year.
The great success of Clinton in some way were able to be used as the body's immunity in poverty and known as Monica Sussex at the American State House between the year 1995, and 1996.
Clinton is only part of the senior leaders of various countries who have set up a record to strengthen the economy of their country in the ruling phase of their ruling party in the country, not insufficient, efforts of the way they had been done by the president (retired) Benjamin Mkapa, who is in a way he succeeded as well as to make Tanzania to hold his international debts under the chairmanship of constitutional changes (Nakheel).
Mkapa is the one who started the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) under the law of the 11th parliament of 1995, and that authority started its work officially on July first, in the year 1994 and therefore, he explained that there was a good intention that the government was unable to collect taxes to big rich people without fear, he explained the reputation of the government being unable to collect tax for young people.
Therefore, what is happening today is to return that TRA is to return to the good intention of Mkapa, that the instrument was started because of doing the work of evaluating and collecting all government revenue, but by bad luck, this instrument has lost its primary direction on a certain way.
The scandal emerged recently by the Prime Minister Majaliwa Kassim Majaliwa and then President Doctor John Magufuli to suspend the general commissioner of TRA, Rished Bade, taking part in the two needs in the country.
