Angela Kizigha was true he knew that?
In the same time to market or it's a problem now even to bring down something that he cannot get the late God is a must that the team came in front there is no single '.
You do not welcome me why when you see you now she has been to be a spirit what does it be very much, that is even when you get married, it cannot get the late.
If you have said what he will be aired by who I don't know what we will vote on what is going on something which will be able to go back to work hard to go back to work, then the late does not know what I was not involved with the patients.
The late God is good even when he was buried and it cannot take a very good team like the baby Mkonde and it knows it to get a cup so when I'm with the phone when I am putting you a little phone with the late God, "says I took her a little phone with the late Marijani Rajabu.
Even at home, if you look for a phone when they get to the hand, you will not kill the late God because she doesn't know what is in December, I know I know what is the holiday of December he will have a problem.
Almighty God and even you know I was able to tell you that you are unable to know how you are not know what?
How is Christmas holiday alone, I am saying when I will give him on how?
Twenty-four that were there.
If you go down, because if you go back to you, I don't go back to go to you by many but I don't know if we don't know if we are not knowing if we are doing well when we're the late.
You don't know where we will we go.
We will do you like?
The widow.
Therefore, when it does not have problems with these days even in activities and sucks or drinking alcohol, the late I will give you a prayer to be careful about the coming of him and let me feel that I could not have a lesson on me and I can't know what they are affected by the late.
What is it?
This is God, these days you agree with your soul and even we have not seen, I don't tell you, I wish you a phone when I saw him, I don't know what I don't know, I don't know what I don't like, "he said.
There are my sister to my sister, you will receive from the poem.
How do I vote?
After who is called who is called '?
Where in which way is what is called I was at home.
You are there in her sister, the father of the father.
The cries of Mgongolwa Valley.
I don't see the late father of the family.
