
They are required to take advantage of the gas opportunities.

It has been written by Hassan Simba, Mtwara.

I was published (03 / 2016.

The youth and women in this province have been encouraged to come out and take advantage of the opportunities that come from the availability of natural gas by creating a production of production so as to avoid the wave of poverty facing them.

Mtwara Regional Commissioner, Halima Dendego said that at the end of the week at a two-day workshop involving youths and women, that was organized by the Pan African non-governmental organizations that deals with oil and oil companies in the province.
Halima Dendego requested his speech, was read on behalf of the government head of Mtwara district, Khatibu Kazuka, said the intention of the government is to see youths and all the women, have the activities of bringing about income in order to build the community of people with the economy that enables life to be better.
He said that it's difficult to help one person, but they are in groups be easy to be assisted by getting loans and even grants from government through tithes of youth and women.
While welcoming the guest of honor to open those trainings, the Executive Secretary of Mtibua, Focas Malengo has said that his network did research and identify the existence of capacity building for the groups so as to go hand in hand with the pace of growth of economic activities that are arising from the existence of natural gas.
He said the aim of the training, that took place at the National Park Hall, is to build their ability and give them skills of entrepreneurship so as to use and benefit from opportunities that come from investment in gas and oil.
Mwasabite said that 400 participants have got that opportunity, including 200 women and 200 women from the villages and rural areas, where the topics of entrepreneurship, economy, small businesses, use of land and AIDS provided.
While giving a topic about knowing that opportunity, Baranaba giving an opportunity, Baranaba giving training when they missed the aim of helping them to get capital, while they can start activities that do not need capital so as to bring productivity to them and the nation as a whole.
