The government contributes to the veterans of drugs.
Jah 03 / 2014.

The reputation of Tanzania outside the country has reduced because the main reason of explained that many youths have been involved in drug trafficking in various countries in the world.
The statistics that were given recently in Mbeya City by the minister in the office of the prime minister, policy planning, William Lukuvi, is that more than 400 Tanzanian youths have been arrested in various countries in the world by being involved in drug abuse.
Statistics of the ministry of foreign affairs and international cooperation show that between the year 2006 to April this year, Nwankwo Kanu has been getting in various parts of China only with 113 others being constructed in Brazil, all over them were affected by the drug trafficking.
The legal reports from the police force show that 13,46 suspects were involved in drug trafficking in the country between January 2009 to May 2014.
In addition to those suspects, the reports shows that there are drugs that were arrested in that period include 967,888 trillion shillings, 3634 kilograms of marijuana, 4634 tons of cement and 212634 tons of marijuana.
The international security forces that deal with the crime in the Indian Ocean, drug abuse and non-communicable diseases (CMSA), have managed to arrest drug abuse of heroin in the coastal region of East Africa including Tanzania, Kenya, and Somalia.
It is the same level of concerned youths of Tanzanian youths in the world, what attracts the vice president, Doctor Mohamed Bilali has made a step to urge the problem that, apart from being a threat to the development of the nation, it has also been able to build a bad state of international development.
The Tanzania national reputation has been opposed due to many youths being involved in drug trafficking, "said Doctor Bilali while addressing the peak of the national day of the World Women's Day that took place nationally in Mbeya Region recently.
Who becomes the number of drugs in the country?
Some of the citizens that were supported by the experts of drugs and criminal issues are saying that the growth of the business in the country together with many youths involved in the country is contributed to more by the government to stop stuttering on those involved in business people or the whites together.
According to the statement by Minister Lukuvi about the shortage of drugs in drugs that include people like the musician, Rehema Chalamila, popular by the name Ray C, brought up a debate among the citizens who attended that commemoration, while some officers explained that it's a misleading statement.
"Ray C is among the youths that were affected by those drugs, he cannot be a big veteran, the leaders spoken to those behind that business," says the officer from one of the media that deal with drugs.
It is said that, social media networks in the world, including the popular one by the "Mafia district, make sure that they get leaders in every level of leadership or public institutions, the aim being to use them to make their businesses in the concerned countries.
Among the positions that are mentioned to be used by those networks that use drugs in the world include the president, the prime minister, some senior ministers and those who are seen to have strength, doctors, officials and judges and level officials of security agencies.
Stop stuttering on the government concerning those players in the country, it would like to identify even in the answers that were given by the representatives of the commission to expand the control of drug abuse in the country, after journalists just to question about the list of veteran players of that business which has been to give you spoken by leaders without stopping.
"Names are there but it is a must that the reports on the internet has reduced, the confiscation of the international cooperation, and already 12 players have been arrested," said the prime minister, the commission for coordinating the control of drug abuse in the country, January Ntwa answering a question that came out to give the list of those leaders who were mentioned in every meeting.
In his speech to Good Citizen in Mbeya recently, about the participation of leaders and business people that are in the country on the business network, one of the drugs experts in the country said that the threat of the international network of the business is though the government cannot say that it has not been unable to control.
"I cannot say that it is not there or he will not know it, but the threat to the international network is, but we cannot say that we have been unable, we are expecting to fight," said the expert, we are looking for special reasons.
