Catholic church in a trap of corruption of IPTL.
Dec 12, 2014.

There is no loss of corruption that have shaken the future of the country since Uhuru is a recent scandal of "Escrow account" to IPTL, a big scandal of this type to participate in the end of the 1990s was the establishment of many political parties' system and the establishment of many political parties.

Apart from the scandal of Richard Miles, the Prime Minister Edward Lowassa, another big scandal as part of MNH, a fee of fees and would have been cut off in order for the cup to be known as Beautitalists "with the aim of helping leaders.

By doing so, the government and the ruling party (CCM) were renovated and irrigate the tree planting trees and to protect themselves and give them the courage of corruption and educate the corrupt people in the country and outside of the country.

The Escrow account is an illustration of the fighting corruption and that lasted for it is difficult, for a cry for many citizens to be heard and to be heard, on corruption that were issued by the government, to show that everything was safe while it is against the government found it.

And when the parliament did not appointed the committee to investigate this issue and look at how it was difficult for the commission to get cooperation from the state agencies and the concerned ministry, while the management of IPTL excluding the mockery of every kind in the country and all of them asked about the corruption.

Look for threats that were donated by the PAC delegates and their information wanted to be stolen at the parliamentary offices where these offices are in the market, Kariakoo.

Being mentioned to the leaders of the biggest church in the country - the Catholic church, in this scandal, there is an act that corruption have been arrested on how to defend justice and harmony in the country.

Bishop Doctor Kilemani, who is a vibrant founder of the Catholic church in the country has told his Eminence Polycarp Cardinal Pengo, who is the leader of the Catholic church in the country, before being transferred to the Diocese of Bukoba for reasons that are unsuitable for now.

Others who were mentioned to have received those funds are Bishop Sedrick Dumu 'who is the assistant coach, Cardinal Pengo, who got 40 million shillings per day and the church has not been known, who also got a share of the church of the Catholic church.

Perhaps, we are also the appointment of leaders of the Church to hold over 1348 in the Catholic Archdiocese of Constitution, and how it is used to protect and defend the Nyamisana of the constitution, the commission of Judge Joseph Sinde Warioba that wanted to protect and defend the Nyamisana of the constitution and accountability of leaders.

By being used badly, we have no doubt that corruption and international bodies were at work in that parliament and because the Catholic church did not have a delegate in that parliament, his turn came to see Bishop Kilale and his colleagues.

For many consecutive years since the heavy rain in our country, the Catholic church, through the ruling party of bishops joined at 970,046, has been on the front line with illegal drug abuse, politics which will be aired live through low-speed crimes according to those who don't have with their evil deeds.

The statements of TEC has shaken many times the pillar of the administration by the strength of "it is not true and about the fate of the nation, to an extent that the Catholic church has been a scholar with the crime and expansion of the economy.

Because of this reason, we will not be able to see the corruption cases and other factors that get married to the church through the bishop of Kiliberali has been able to prevent and prevent the voice of discipline and liberation of this country not to be buried and be buried in big political funds.

This scandal is a great shame that is being touched by the Catholic church on the eyes of his believers and the Tanzanians who love all the rights of this country, when they sell the church, instead of being a house of prayer and hope for what they have had a human sin.
