Miss Eucharist celebrated if it could not be Nyerere, grandfather would leave early.
Mage of 18, 2015.

Last week, this newspaper made you talk about this interview with the former wife of a scholar, the vice president and a politician, the late brother, Mohamed Babu, known as Kikula has said first, we request for him to write his name as the White House.
In the first part, left his fellow citizens about how he met with Babu, politics of Zanzibar heading to Revolution of the year 1995, and what caused the conflict among those who made the revolution.
At the time, Mrs. Fauzia Kullane, all times you get a picture that there are many things that he is doing because of human reasons, he has decided to leave you.
The good thing is that he is talking with while he is looking at while he knows when she was explaining a difficult time he was doing after her husband ran away he has said due to the killing of President Abeid Karume that took place on April 7th in the year 1972.
Two months before the killing of Karume, Babu, was the minister in the government of Tanzania Mister basically, he says that she will give him a gift from the Ministry of Trade and Industry in the changes that he has planned to be done in the beginning of the year 1972.
"Teacher had gone to Babu, to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, to represent Tanzania in one of the meetings, already he had told him when he was there, he would have announced a new cabinet of ministers where he was officially announced to hold that position.
"At the time it was a must for the president of the United Republic to take the names of his former wife to the fellow president of Zanzibar so as to agree.
"During the time, the big weapons of Karume was that of breaking the union. If he says Nyerere wants to do things that he didn't agree with that, it is a must for him to talk like what is this union.
"Nyerere did not have a way to agree with his fellow president. He wanted him to appoint Babu, in his fellow council but he was in-day when he was in-day before he was born on the council but they will move forward.
"Babu has been given instructions of continuing with responsibilities, even if he was appointed, but he did not come back home while he is not a minister and I think the teacher maybe he told her reason or not told him but that is how it happened," says Mrs Fissoo.
However, by recognizing that Babu did not have any house in Dar es Salaam or Zanzibar, Teacher he has ordered that his former minister will be given to one of the houses of the National Housing Corporation (NHC) in order to live with his family.
That is the first Ukawa's family to live in that house which is in Upanga in Dar es Salaam city.
"If you see Nyerere, all the presidents who followed here in Tanzania, I have seen that they prepare to sell their house because I have never been sold until now where I have not been married again, maybe I would have been married again, then I would have been able to go back again."
While the family of Babu who his contribution towards Zanzibar's revolution and the national construction of Tanzania is big and it does not have been denied the own kind in the house, other different people whose contribution will not be sold to houses like the NHC houses at an affordable price.
Two months after grandfather was put in Sinza "following the changes of ministers, Taifa Stars was faced with the main market after being shot dead in Karume when he was at the Afro-Corruption Bureau (ASP), the party that protects the Zanzibar at Kisiwandui primary, Unguja.
The name of grandfather was one of the ones that was mentioned to be involved in those murder cases, the government of the teacher took a step of arrested him and put the spider plant where he passed with a total of six years and 11 days.
One of the leaders in the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (EALA), Edenvale stadium, he told some of the ambassadors that he should be safe or a person, it is a must for Babu, to be buried in Zanzibar, he gave him the allegations and it was a grandfather who has been silent before the case started.
"Babu has he said that I was suffering from different leaders that the release of 'I remember I had to follow the former lawyer of the government, Mark Bomani, requested him to stop the case while in Tanzania so that Babu can't know if he is wrong.
