
RC, Mbeya districts are smoking tobacco.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

Mbeya Regional Commissioner, Amos Makalla has said that many students of that school in Mbeya, are smoking marijuana in the area of Azimio Primary School and they have assessed the violence.

Speaking at the radio station, Makalla said the leadership of the province has ordered the school's board to take action of returning the discipline in that school because it's impossible for a student to be about the teachers.
He said the punishment was given is big, but there is a problem of parents to support things by defending the children when they err, he urged the parents not to do children because they make the cervix.
We don't ask you that we are those who are in are very attractive, and teachers are the source what is happening by the police, the state of discipline for grade three and four students of Mbeya Town (2) in Mbeya Region.
Therefore, the government must be able to restore discipline through the school's board so that we cooperate to restore discipline, there are children who are going to sell marijuana in the Azimio Primary School, when he arrived there is making violence, therefore, we are taking the step of returning that discipline, "said Makalla.
He said when other issues of guidelines and procedures of the Ministry of Education continues, the investigation of the state agencies will continue, he said that she does not want a matter like it will happen again and wants to reach a place where other students would like to maintain the teachers.
The Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako has said it is important to supervised by the teachers and the student to build a environment that he does not go to school because they will not be found but to read.
He said upbringing starts with parents, therefore, if parents are not on my responsibility, contributes to a huge amount of ethics and discipline for children.
He said together with that the punishment is not present, but there is a big problem to students not having discipline in teachers, community and their colleagues.
He said that teachers should be able to recognize that, a group of guardians, thus building very close to the student and to help them by managing their discipline and not to resolve violence that were done by the student, also advised the system of teaching education and upbringing for students to be strengthen.
Coordinator of Channel O and Khajida Kopa, the coordinator said that maybe he didn't know the elections of the type of students to study teaching, it should not be taxed.
"The results are that people who do not have faith in the teaching they have joined the teaching course and do not happen if it may also be the curriculum of teaching education depending on more education more than the upbringing," said Sekhoto, in his speech the day before yesterday.
He urged the students who are chosen to enter the teaching they will be discussed including schools that they go up to school education and the curriculum of teaching education, they should be looked at afresh, especially the section of students, ethics and the leadership of the relationship between the teachers and the student.
Moreover, he urged the Tanzania teachers' Association (CT) to provide training to time to build a relationship between the teachers and the student.
Previously, while speaking to this newspaper, the President of CWT, Gratian Mukoba said that the young teachers of the moment have decided to discover themselves because they are teachers who depend on the art group, thus they are supposed to bring more effort to think afresh.
Mukoba said the punishment is the last step for a student and I advise the teachers to build closely with students in the foundation of wanting to know the problem that made him to have a bad behavior.
He urged the youth teachers to put aside the political tensions, to use guidelines and laws in work hard to professionalism, instead of change those boxers and affect the community thus causing students to respect them.
Provision of strokes and the government has said that the education system of the year 2002, it has shown the provision of 12 strokes and there is a result of the improvement of the head teachers in a short period with the teachers who carried out a student.
The Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training has set aside the provision of that punishment, but they wanted the students to avoid various mistakes that will be caused by getting 12 strokes because they are going to study in school.
The acting commissioner of education, Nicholaus Zacharia said that the day before yesterday when speaking to the 24-year agreement of the year 2002, that started to be used on December first this year, that causes the punishment that is supposed to be released to the student by indiscipline on criminal offenses.
He said that 12 strokes and are given by checking the size of the disease, how to a student, its health and to make sure that they have come up to school, but the students are required to know that they have come up in school to study and they have never been able to make the mistakes that we are causing.
We are expecting to mobilize in good relations between the teachers and the student who are such as a parent, "said Buchosa Constituency, he said in that relationship, he is supposed to be a friend of the teachers without considering the procedures of improving education being implemented by the Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government (Tamisemi) in collaboration with the Ministry of Education.
He said that they will ensure they reach an average of one class to have 1 hundred and 45 students so as to achieve goals, 12 strokes and even so, the law was giving an opportunity for a student to reach 12 strokes and therefore the year 2000, the government didn't inform the law and set 12 strokes and the punishment to be released by the head teachers.
It has been written by Theopista Komba, Gloria Tesha and Shadrack Sagna.
