Why do we have thanks to what they have done?
Jah 03 / 2014.

It is clear that this country for a way has enough thanks to some of the heads of our country especially in need of donations, here I'm talking to relationship between the United Arab Emirates and the United Republic of Tanzania.
Basically, the relationship between Tanzania and the United Arab Emirates (UWAWa) has succeeded in many areas but the relationship as well as Tanzania for many ways, including the national elections and even to one institution, some of the institutions are true and that this was the presidential candidate for other candidates.
At least only, the other donations have ever come out in Tanzania from the river which is together with the donation of vehicles, with the number of vehicles, because of some of the Tanzanian ambassador in several countries.
However, in the issue of faith, believers of the religious leaders have been relating with donations from those countries for instance, at this time of the beginning of the month of Ramadhan. It has been common that those countries have been given several containers, more than 20 percent of some of the directors in some of the ministries in the country.
Last week, I read a news that was written by this newspaper of Raia Mwema, that Tanzania company is involved in controlling the killing of Kitanzini ward, Green Initiative 'that has been denied a special permit for preventing throat cancer in France that was caused by the coming of part of the family of King from Undule.
That company was carried out a permit for controlling in collaboration with the ministry of foreign affairs and international cooperation led by the Minister Lazaro Nyalandu, here in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation led by the Minister Lazaro Nyalandu, here in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, because that coming is important to involve the ministry.
In their promise to make sure that the Green Themi Institute of that company was tested for a permit, in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism announced the reason that without research and any keenly they were carried out, therefore, as a result of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, to explanation it is why he has refused to give a permit for fighting for that of tourism.
Those reasons are two that a special permit for switching off in possession of the Green Resources Company Limited in Kitanzini ward, Kitwiru, Kitegu has decided to be released because the first phase of a tension about the mountain was in court and that for the government, if it was explained the newspaper of Mke Mwema should intervene in order to intervene in court.
I join with the reasons that tried to destroy the permit, not to intervene in court activities because the court did not give a lesson on the process that the parliament is wrong, because the parliament is easy to prevent it, because the parliament is easy to prevent the issue and there is no need to prevent it, because the parliament is easy to prevent the issue and there is no need to stop the issue and there is no need to stop the issue and there is no need to prevent it from the hands of the Russian company, Green Themi Institute of Limited.
For the reason, Mujahideen from the river was reach a lot of fighting for tourism and therefore bringing in a lot of billions of money, the government is giving advice that the party (guest) will go to hunt to get anything here in the country.
That advice and on my part has no reason because of several reasons, which include the fact that the owner of the licenses in Lake Tanganyika Valley have taken a loan for the purpose of running that activity in Lake Victoria.
