
A big opponent of Donald Trump.
Currently Trump does not be identified by any opposition party just after the general meeting of the party that will be held in July this year.
The map of that Indiana region showed statistics of results of the presidential candidates of the Republican.
Indiana governor and Senator of Texas County, Ted Cruz has resigned from the contest for presidential candidate of the United States through the Republican Party, that step has left the white way for his candidate Donald Trump.
Cruz reached that decision while having 166 days held by the American general elections while candidates continue to look for opinion polls for the purpose of being appointed by their party to vie for that position in that country.
The cause of contesting for that position is believed to be after Cruz claimed that they lost votes in the last campaign in the Indiana province.
Cruz told his followers that he did everything he had made in his campaigns, but he did not see any possibility of him to move ahead and decide to get into the race.
After announcing the resignation of that veteran candidate at the Indiana governor, his followers were shocked as together with giving up.
It was claimed that the announcement gives loopholes to Donald Trump to get the appointment of his Republican Party because many have been saying that Senator for Ted Cruz is the only one who had defeated Donald Trump in the appointment of the Republican Party.
Cruz, who is a driver from the Texas County, already showed its symptoms early after emerging the winner in the presidential election in Iowa, but in a surprising step, he made him to the race after being unable to contest the Indiana governor. Those votes were discovered that Trump has emerged with 3676 votes.
"This night, I am happy to say that I have decided to get into this scandal," I thank you for your cooperation, that Indiana governor is hard to say but I decided to stop, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he decided to leave," he decided to leave, "he
He said Cruz Hinterland, Edward Lowassa was born in 1970, Vicente Calderon after he was alleged that it may be used by his opponents to sign him.
His mother was a citizen of America, an issue that has given him citizenship to the two countries while his father was an immigrant from Cuba from his father entered America to run away the rule of Batuli.
The family of Cruz appeared to Hauston Texas in the year 1974 where he was only three years old for he was given for Ted Cruz.
He visited his studies at the University of Prince where he was popular of debates and then joined the Don Bosco College to study the law.
Cruz was asked as the executive director of the law in the high court in 1996 and joined the law on law issues in Washington DC where he said that being beaten in a big case while he met with his wife, Hela Nelson Mandela at the year 2000 and blessed two girls.
2012 vied for the Texas County against the famous candidate, however, emerged the winner and is the first time for him to run for the presidency in the year 2016 at the University of Christian Liberty.
He promised to return to their homes and improve security in the United States and Mexico.
Cruz, Bush who joined on March 24, who scored for the process of running the presidential candidate of the United States, Jeb Bush who announced to support Cruz in the race for the Republican's appointment.
Bush who announced to support the rival sides while the party is being faced with a huge conflict in relation to the success of Trump.
Bush who told his statements and dirty ways of dividing the party that are used in the Trump's campaigns, which are among the things that he said is to build a wall between the United States, Mexico border and preventing Muslims not to remain in America.
Bush gave an award in the race of stealing a new presidential candidate through the Republican after doing badly in the primaries that took place in the northern regions of the New Hampshire and South Carolina.
