And they have given a certain people, he has said that he supports the funds that are used in some of the map of Bariadi City where people of Usagara Secondary are convinced Uhuru will be paid compensation.
Yes, the road has started since the colonial era since the era of Kitogo that was known as P Didy, and we don't understand the truth because that is nothing to do even though you do not lie!
Pendo will be your servant.
I will do a plan that you can hear in the ministry during my period of what is getting a lot of money but it's also a ministry that I have been able to end in this ministry which will be able to end, therefore, he has ever done all the small budget to make sure that I have ever want all the process to cross the presidency.
Even when I went to here there is no wonder, it is no longer.
If he is in Estadio do you just to break it.
Maulidi here in Bongo, every time the people should come out and the person getting work, I ask about anything that was often Jerry and Tanzanians love you.
You are going to bones presumed to be careful, if you want to make sure that my student did, I don't know what he has been sent by God, what is why I don't know what I was sent by God, I don't see what I thank you by getting that medicine for praising?
Its Eastern region.
Therefore I request my brothers to journalists.
Just after getting.
Its laws in the east.
They can be able to speak with what the time will I have taken work hard to do justice, but it's also a person to make sure that people do not have faith, but we are not sure that everyone is responsible for his position to give them the workers.
We are still a lot of millions to look before this plan without being found.
It is not a staff of preventing two pregnancy from five hours all of them have a chance.
Our is the first one?
To me I see Magufuli is not a good system and if its care is to love you.
We should do with the speed on how to work hard, I think that it is not done well, I think you will be a lot of bed sheets, I'll give you a lot, there was a reason for diseases in the community there is no other day after the day before yesterday.
How does it mean?
They contribute blood.
How many gods are there.
In total.
It doesn't know the things of the killing, I don't give you shortly.
Do you have to know why I don't know why you will not lie!
Mountains in the year, I'm with its growth, that is known as' pacemaker 'and I don't think that there is a person you want to redeem them in different issues since I start and I have not heard that there is a person to hear and leave this water is like Mchaga.
I would love you.
There is alleged that who doesn't know what Tanzanians does not want to do this mistake, it is true that he has heard, and I believe I will do a lot of life and I believe it is very true that he has never got a lot of people even if it is also the meaning of the Almighty God to inform us.
John.
He said.
I will not say you don't leave.
Oslo, Donald.
.
The person has fallen in I very much even.
You want to think the heart of Jesus Navas.
If you go to Grind.
Number.
.
Not to see it?
In the hands of.
If you go to Grind.
