Property of the member of parliament were cast.
Petit 25, 2014.

They have reached five days only, starting on Wednesday this week, before some of the property of the famous member of parliament of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Captain John Komba, being signed at the auction so as to compensate the great debt he has done in the CRDB Bank.

According to various documents that had been found, Komba said that they have at several schools in Dar es Salaam city, including an error in the CRDB Bank more than one billion shillings, being a primary debt together with the interest of 17 percent in the past five years, being claimed to pay that debt.

The foundation stone is 20,000 million shillings, has been released for two consecutive years, the first one million shillings and later Sh. 600 million, after completing the construction of classrooms, employees, dormitories, extraction of boreholes and the purchase of houses for form five and six classrooms in that school of an eye for each other.

The repayments of that loan are supposed to be paid within five years, they were expected to take place in 22 universities and ended on June 30th, 2014.

"January 14, 2009, the Member of Parliament was given by CRDB a total of 40 million shillings which are supposed to be paid by" Kibacha (22) and completed on June 30th, 2014, "said our journalist who is clear that his name can't put the newspaper at the moment.

In those agreements, that member of parliament through a non-governmental organization (NGO) that she gets, "Grace Tendega" (a period of time) using six months, but even he started paying, his payments will not go as expected.

"The bond of the loan that was set aside for bank is the third certificate for the grounds as the number + 21261 (1 billion), number 21245 (2)," said our journalists while several documents have confirmed.

More investigation of Raia Mwema believe that the existence of the sincere efforts of the member of parliament to write his debt, but up to April 16, last year, it has paid 21267,888 shillings being paid in the CRDB Bank, Lumumba number 110,006,25000 shillings.

Another money among those that are 6,000,000 shillings were paid by that member of parliament and the Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) in her account that is in Kijitonyama, Kijitonyama, Dar es Salaam and then he was asked to return to the CRDB Bank, Lumumba.

This newspaper was not identified immediately because of TACAIDS the member of parliament to a big amount of money.

As a result of the delay of paying the debt to the flow that agreed, up to November 2011, only two years since it was given to the loan, the debt had increased by approximately 212,34914 shillings, an act that caused the CRDB Bank to look into the court's property and put him a public auction.

That agent, Bottling Company Limited, was given that job on February 8 this year, but before doing so, the Member of Parliament had fled to the court, a member of parliament to set up the petition, although many students of the school they have at their disposal were forced to move to other schools due to their future.

"During the conflict between him and CRDB, the member of parliament was addressing to relocate the ownership of its schools, to an extent of reaching an agreement with the IS Company Tanzania running one of its schools for five years while the issue was done," he clarified.

After seeing that, the issue should continue to be hard in him, our citizens should understand that, the member of parliament who has a good relationship with some of the top leaders of CCM and the government, asked the office of the Prime Minister (PMO) to intervene in that issue and to convince the director of CRDB, Doctor Charles Kimei in the time of paying his debt.

On April 23, 2012, PMO Blog has written the letter Doctor Kimei the audience not to look at the possibility of creating a period at that time the government is looking for an appropriate way to help him by buying his schools, but CRDB continued with its stand of not increasing more time.

March 21, last year, the City Council of Dar es Salaam got an letter to the member of parliament of February 20 this year, which did not have records, the request to buy the school and the land is saying that they will be dealt with by the committee of community services that he did and until now, there is no answers given for him.
