District commissioner of Misenyi, Kagera province, Colonel Issa Mbiku has issued a warning to the workers of the health department in that province and promised to take stern legal action against the elderly which is a plan of implementation of Mkulabi and our reporter in Chang'ombe.
In the village we have already told the out of prison Misenyi, where the prime minister retired Colonel Issa Msepwa.
He said that during the launch that we will help the referendum on the stage, we see the party that the God is in order to control different challenges that are facing the elderly including understanding for free medical services together with the burden to the family due to a disaster.
In addition to the coordinator of the customer service, you want to read for a long time the instructions of leaders of the country, the leaders don't have the rights of the elderly.
Some of the elders have advised the government to look keenly the challenges and free treatment but also giving advice about the plan in life to the elderly that is expected to be registered in the next financial year and third.
He says that they are saying everything is.
When you see you say you don't be followed when what happens when you feel like, Mister Misango, is supposed to be priority where we have received this month if they receive them but for a month it is not there.
Every month is to help buy food to buy oil and small businesses at home, the district commissioner of Misssenyi, retired Colonel and told BBC that the district will be keen with civil servants to ensure that the health department should take advantage of the government to use the government.
It has come.
Choose Dar es Salaam.
I give you an unusual thing that you will get that judgment.
To think about it is impossible.
There are people who are where those who do not lie?
I see the man the doctor with us.
Those nurses and hurt them.
Whom she will be demolished quickly to bring 'dirty words, I urge you to appreciate your name.
To remove the bodies that station will help two thousand members in hand in hand with the fundraising for the construction of classrooms with orphans, but also don't forget where they have never seen many lovers.
What is it?
