Assume the easy issue of killing democracy in political parties.
Jah 03 / 2014.

The year 2009, Professor Abdallah Safari came out to fight with Professor Ibrahim Lipumba to vie for the chairperson of the Citizens Party (CUF).
He was unable to do a great shame while they been informed that the delegates of the general meeting of that party they attacked them.
If my research is okay, in the year 2011, Professor Lipumba gave him CUF to some of the leaders of CUF, I believe that when he told Professor Safari, they missed him because it was bought by CCM.
There is an outbreak of Professor Lipumba's story and that of Zitto Zuberi Kabwe, who several years behind he posted his intention to vie for the chairmanship of CHADEMA.
In the Zitto Kabwe, that happened in the beginning of this year, the young person found himself followed by the main committee on allegations of "organizing a revolution plot" because the evidence of the document was supposed to be paid by CHADEMA.

The party's executive committee decided to return the membership card and it could not be a court, maybe Zitto Kabwe had already been lost in a political map from Ukawa as it was to Professor Safari, it will be told to Zitto Kabwe, he is used to choose the party.
At the moment, Professor Safari is in CHADEMA, being among the leaders of that party while the same CHADEMA was in partnership with the opposition parties and CUF together with NCCR Revolution.
Hamad Rashid is another politician who once worked with a person, being called me, but he said that she is expecting his son revealed when he started discussing the development of the party and to consider the senior leaders that they have failed.
Hamad also like Zitto is saying that he may be expelled and maybe he may not be afraid in politics if not the court.
It is not pleased with the politicians, even the opposition parties itself they have been playing with one or another, it is striving them to be used by CCM party but even all the opposition parties have had an indication for each other.

CHADEMA and CUF party are the ones that have ever been big enemies, while the right time you pay the government and be used by CCM party after the right time in Zanzibar, leaders of CHADEMA have announced CUF as CCM B, while CUF are continuing to emerge from the way they can have.
The recent changes of relationship between those two parties which brought up causing a birth of UKAWA that led many to us and even what are waiting for some.
Recently, the group of people alleged to be leaders of CHADEMA from different provinces followed the various issues of their party including the issue of partnership with other parties under the umbrella of UKAWA which the leaders questioned him as CUF, which CHADEMA has changed and being good?
History of what is called upon in politics of Tanzania is very long within the parties, especially the opposition, leaders have been complaining for forgiveness for forgiveness from CCM since the era of NCCR, Augustine Mrema, some of them are outdated. They are in political parties at the moment.
However, if you follow up on different stories, it gives the CCM party members in the opposition parties that have not noticed that those accusations come just immediately some people or when they start a question, an issue that is inspiring.
Many times those who use their colleagues ran away is not enough for the party, it has done its work and got evidence that some people have been bought by the ruling party and who are being used to bring conflicts.
The foundation of the concept of democracy is competition on issues and policies, and in that, we are expecting political parties to have a good example of the party and that few should be heard since parties will be dealt with, but it happens inside the parties there will be competition in looking for leadership.
