Types of bottles they do to live good flavor.
Petit 17, 2015.

One day after the wedding took place in the afternoon and went to the market against Athletico Bilbao that happened in the market at the end of the market at the day before yesterday and the light of the sun is not seen due to the sun light.
When a solution is a responsibility, "together with the sun, but the brain of many people are at darkness.
In addition to the freedom of the flag they have received and a big level of education they reached, there are many people that have already been buried and there are many people who have already been buried and are not a lot of time to investigate and give correct answers for that issue.
So that Tanzania can be able to reach changes and success, it is a must for us to know if you are smoking cigarettes which has arrested some individuals from CCM, but Tanzania is good without CCM is possible.
The Revolutionary Party (CCM) is an institution with its constitution and its' system was started in 1977 after being connected to Tanu and ASP), CCM has more than 38 years in Tanzania, but since the year 1977 there have been huge changes in CCM.
Problems inside CCM started after business people join CCM as sponsors and later to get leadership positions within the party and finally the government.
This situation started coming out by the power in 1995, for many business people to join CCM and later to vie for a parliamentary position after business people get into the government, that is where huge embezzlement or corruption started.
The rich have got a voice in CCM and his ideology, told him that CCM's involved, farmers and employees but for now it gives business people from the gap between the rich and poor citizens, has changed and said, CCM has lost its honor and attraction to Tanzanians.
For approximately two weeks now, we have witnessed the intentions of the presidential position and many of them now from the ruling party (CCM) up to Monday, June 13, 2015, have showed up with 33 points from CCM and it is expected to take them more than 30 needs.
Every candidate has his slogan and his policies at the time the party is one for these intentions to be similar to the type of bottles at the same kind, we will affect the type of bottles at each other, we will affect the kind of bottles while not to change good flavor.
He said there are many citizens looking for a result of bad decisions that they were made by CCM and his government without caring for the interests of the country, many citizens are in the heavy threats of poverty due to the bad use of power within the great speed of CCM.
Many citizens are using a result of poor contracts and selling of public organizations that was done by the government of CCM.
Many people have been because of the collapsed building in the country, they have been a reason for corruption that allows us to protect our nation, they have been a reason for poor contracts, they have been a reason for the constitution that has been involved in the views of Tanzanians.
These efforts have been members of the executive committee of CCM, the National Executive Council (NEC) of the National Executive Council (NEC) and Kikwete in 2005 and led the group of Tanzanians to fight for the presidency.
It is surprising that if Tanzanians and even tell our leaders of CCM they gave a finger to their government and their party at the parliament they denied him when he was told the government of CCM has gotten tired.
While outside the parliament they had explained that their government has been unable to solve any political problems from their CCM party, it is the source of the problems they have gotten tired with the opposition party members and also the chairman of the council of ministers which many of them are involved.
Our country for now needs a good leadership of the party which can be able to give the nation's direction in general, by bad luck, for now inside CCM due to its system cannot be able to provide a stable leadership or a good president cannot be again from CCM.
