Simba today again.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published on 29th October, 2016.

Simba today will be at the CCM Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga to deal with the Mwadui FC team in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League.

Simba has not lost even one game since the league began August 8th where he has already played 11 matches, won nine matches and lost two matches, being the top position of that league.
If Simba will play with victory in today's game against Mwadui of Shinyanga, it will strengthen the top of the league's stand and make sure that the good environment of winning that contest for approximately four years ago.
Simba today will be away at the CCM Kambarage Stadium against Mwadui being the second game for that team to play outside Dar es Salaam after the match against Mbeya City, where they emerged victorious with 2-0 goals.
The Mwadui soccer club has launched its ten goals with their attackers, they have succeeded to sell their goals nine times while Simba itself has closed 21 goals and allow three goals to be in the poor.
Mwadui has never been defeated by Simba in the premier league of Tanzania Mainland and that shows that the difficulty of the game itself and especially given the truth of that they will be at their home field you are doing that game to attract feelings among the fans of those teams.
Those teams are meeting for the first time this season with the new technical bench where Simba will be under coach Joseph Omog from Cameroon and Mwadui FC will be under Coach Khalid, who was the assistant coach of coach Jamhuri Kihwelo who left that team.
Other matches for today will be: Mbeya City will face water at the Sokoine stadium, while JKT Ruvu will host Ndanda FC as African Lyon welcoming Prisons, Toto will host Mtibwa Sugar.
However, it will not be easy for Simba to win today against Mwadui that is in the third position in the league's stand at the end of last week, they will play 2-1 goals and they are not ready to lose their game.
The coach of Simba, Joseph Omog said that match will be difficult because their opponents use abusive language on the field but will follow up so as to make sure they live with victory as Omog said that she is not worried with his squad, it is good and ensure his players should not play for freedom.
"We have organized himself well, I have prepared them to win, I have them and our opponents are good, but my players are supposed to meet Simba and they know where they will not have a easy match like Simba fans are happy that they are going to take three points to them and leave.
"I don't see if there are reasons for supporting Simba, all teams are playing with self-employed due to the challenges that are in the competition of this season, we are expecting a statement of considering that they are not in the field so that we're going on well," said Khalid.
At the National Stadium tomorrow, Yanga want to score against Simba from the top of Coach Hans Pluijm who had managed to return home in the club before yesterday coming back again with the minister of internal affairs Mwigulu Nchemba who was leading in another time the technical bench of that team is in the second position in the league standing with 24 points.
This season, the league has been difficult because every team is seen to give him a rally which seems to give him that league seems to have a lot of points compared to three points, something that increase the difficulty of who will qualify for the championship this season.
Yanga, the defending champions, is on the great pressure to defend his championship from Simba being the top while it is holding the second position followed by Stand United and Kagera Sugar.
Yanga that is facing Mtibwa tomorrow, did not give him a contract with their last few months ago by winning the championship this season until now, the team that was given a chance to win the championship this season until now, Yanga is being given a chance to win the championship this season until now, while Azam is expected to use extra strength to come out of the sixth position of the league standings in position six.
