

By Abdalla Omar Chambo of Dar es Salaam.
One of the teams that are small fields in England is Shangani region, which is participating in the second premier league (League One).
Despite the smallness of his home ground cious Foundation, a shop that took approximately 75 viewers, has not been able to remove their rights of fighting Chelsea at his home ground in the competition of the fourth round of the tournament for the first round in October 28 this year.
No one doesn't know a large number of Chelsea fans, but the rocks was forced to wed for the journey up to Shishiyu Ward, as a result of the England Football Association (FA) to lead his soccer with great professionalism at the basis of rights and equality without favoring some of the team.
However, South Africa, the Bhebey Ndey Company is among the teams that are in small fields in the country called Bompunga Padou, when it comes to his home ground, they are given a chance by the Confederation of South African Football (FFA), to use its home ground with the ability to take approximately 50 fans only.
Despite the large number of fans of the old teams in that country, Kehlani Pickup, and Mamelodi Sundowns won, but the team is forced to reach the team to benefit from his fans at his home ground, and this system is being used by the European nations in the whole world.
Even the Federation of International Football Association (FIFA), is insisted that it is really appropriate for the game (Kilifair 2015), to know that the team's system will play in the home and away system (after one and away).
Here in the country, the situation is different since the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), has been following the purpose of freedom of the team to use its grounds in playing their home matches and claimed that due to security reasons due to the smallness of some fields.
But TFF works all the two teams of Simba and Yanga, which are the only teams in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League that are playing many home matches more than all the other.
Until now Yanga and Simba were not ready to play his league matches and those of the FA Cup away at Azam Complex stadium, Azam FC at the Mabatini Stadium, Ruvu Shooting, JKT Ruvu, at the Mabatini Stadium, Ruvu Shooting, JKT Ruvu, and the Manungu Stadium that is owned by Mtibwa Sugar.
All away matches that involve Azam FC teams, JKT Ruvu, Ruvu Shooting, African Lyon and all the other teams of Dar es Salaam, Simba and Yanga get the right to play for their home ground at the National Stadium.
