
The aircraft will continue to pay compensation.

It has been written by Shadrack Sagna.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

The Advisory Council of Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCDAA) has called on Fastjet's Company to cater for their passengers who have lost their journey without being given a report.

The acting executive secretary of that council, Deuogratius Mushi said that company is forced to give that compensation in accordance with the law due to the effects they got on the passengers.
Mlali said from Monday this week, the council passed a lot of complaints from users of air travel services that are in Mwanza, Mbeya and Dar es Salaam about the beginning of their journey without information and bad language from the workers of the organization.
He said other complaints were that company not caring for its customers after the journey of the journey.
He said after receiving complaints, the council made a responsibility to follow up on the issue closely because of Fastjet's leadership so as to know the efforts that will take them to control the situation.
"The leadership of Fastjet, confirmed that it was planned for their journey immediately after the period led to claims that those reasons that were outside their ability and that they were doing everything possible to clear that situation," said the report.
Mlenda said that Fastjet is expecting to ensure their sales of tickets that go with the number of the aircraft they are facing and there should be a procedure of giving information to its passengers at the changes since information is the basis of the user.
That executive secretary also urged Fastjet's leadership to be able to support its employees especially those who are in the airport to have a good language of decks to passengers. He also advised the leadership to look for its passengers for giving correct report without considering anything that arise in the journey.
The Fastjet's spokesman, Lucy Mbogoro (right), said they don't leave that announcement of TCAA-CCC and that they will discuss the issue of compensation after communicating with the authorities that gave that statement.
He said that just after their aircraft, they had given two opportunities to their passengers, one being to return to them the fare for their passengers and to give them a free ticket within three months and those who did not want this opportunity to travel up to the plane of tomorrow.
He said that the journey were postponed due to climate change which have been done by that company and said the disruptions that they got the day before yesterday in a meeting between them and the Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) and the issue of compensation was not there and it did not spoken.
