
RC will inform the children of our streets to get aroused.

It has been written by Pickup,.

It has been published in October, 2016.

The provincial commissioner of Rukwa, Zelothe Steven has commanded children of the male children who live in Sumbwanga in Sumbawanga town, to give its obligations in court for them to return and live with their families.

In addition, he has commanded parents and guardians of those children, they don't know wherever they are and read it by using their children and causing them to live in the estates.
Zelothe gave those instructions in the 30th meeting of the Advisory Committee of Rukwa Province (RCC) at the end of the week in the city, supporting the advice that he made by the Sumbawanga District Commissioner, Doctor Fred Haule.
"This is now a big problem, there are reports that those children have their parents.
In the picture.
These children have now been studying in the estates, for those who are big, the arrested are arrested, they are arrested, they are given to court and they should be given the punishment for being discharged.
"For parents with these children, the ones have been arrested, they are arrested, arraigned in court to be a lesson to parents with behavior that it doesn't like to identify their children and causing them to live in the streets here," insisted Zelothe.
Doctor Haule stated that 16 children who live in the streets have been arrested recently in an accident, they will be allowed to be by being tested in court and return to their families.
"231 children, those boys have revealed that they live in the streets of Sumbawanga town and different age in a recent operation that took place in this town here, 40 children have been arrested and taken to live in a conducive environment of Beekeeping Association, which is bringing children living in difficult conditions.
In that operation, they were arrested in 16 children who have a great age, I advise that I will be able to go back in court so that they can be able to go back to their families, "he said.
