
This is Almighty God, we win our houses to avoid what?

It has been written by Angela Kizigha.

I was heard of 16th October, 2016.

In every day of every day, there are many things that contribute to the break of a lot of houses or I say to disrupt the relationship of many marriages and to bring down the family to look for several things and to avoid them.

When it comes up, it is not something sad, in peace and good things that they give the challenge of wanting to make changes in development, but if one in the family has the ability to make things and never they will not have the ability to fined and found it.
For example, you can't found a woman any friend who have things and good property, that she does not starts into peace and he does not depend on any way, something that has a huge danger to demolish houses to demolish houses.
You are required to know which lack of what has become peace and wanting to get married and make sure you lack joy which is important in bringing peace in your house, remember that you are tarnishing their house, you should do and be satisfied with what they have.
In addition, Mashuri said the situation can make you have better than other people, to be proud of the ones that had not found themselves and they have not found a good thing that contributed to a large extent that caused us to demolish many houses.
People with bad luck will never be hard to ask for forgiveness for when he knows her.
This situation brings conflicts in many houses and at the end, it is very bad.
In all days, Mashuri says it gives someone with his thoughts as every time she desires for himself, because she doesn't know it is good and he has done well without knowing if he has done with his colleague.
Bad luck, will be able to listen to any real situation, do not listen to any advice and be able to make sure that you get accurate decisions, the results are very disturbing and it also does not give up their houses and their families because they can't understand the fish or not forgive me.
My brothers, pride and destruction, the soul of the hips before History, is it better to be careful, in a spirit among those who are oppressed, so as to promote life.
You are required to do it is not true because it should be a position, education, good family, work, services should not meet any person on how he is or as it is.
