
Efforts, so he is required to save the environment.
He got into one of the towns in Kenya and conservation of the environment did not affect the forests but also a way to address the areas where people live.
Didn't be done for a lot of celebrations as it is that during other commemoration like the HIV or cancer day, which is continuing even in a week or a whole month.
This is an indication that the issues of the environment is not supposed to be sold for the necessary weight as well as how many years do not mean that the environment is growing up to all nations in the world.
Those effects are of hunger, diseases and poverty as bad weather affects the production of food and that is why we see a lot of areas on the world being faced with a disaster of hunger.
Here in Kenya, different events like a drought of these floods which do not expect is among the effects of environmental destruction, despite having many news reports, there are many nations, including Kenya celebrating the environmental day in the world.
Those commemorations are witnessed in America where it was reported that there is a danger of having a food shortage this year.
This means that this problem is facing a whole world or not a curse from African countries like they claimed some of us.
Any community that comes out of hunger is usually in the high risk of passing by various diseases.
The first use of diseases in the human body is a good thing, therefore, who are looking for food is not easy to live or it depends on the disease.
At the time of hunger and the diseases facing a human being, strength of looking for livelihood usually uses because its results affects the economy of the nation in general.
All the issues of hunger, diseases, poverty and destruction of environment are related to them and it will be an appropriate time to think about it more better.
A lot of time on the issue of conservation of the environment, while talking to people getting married on forests.
But that issue is suitable for being attacked and put openly that the environment has the ability to affect the life of a human being in different parts.
For example a way to address has bought it is an issue of the environment because it affects one of the human health.
It is the responsibility of every one of us to take action against their lives and to maintain good environment.
The current law is also needed to help in efforts to deal with those who contribute to the environment.
Officials are dealing with urine, most of them affect the highest level and forgetting or at an eye on a big industries that endangers the life of a human being with the pain they produce.
Industries that do not have poison with water with chemicals to get into the rivers could not be faced with the legal action.
The benefits that are available and the government from industries like that, will not contribute to developing the country if there is a huge danger to destroy the citizens.
How do you know if you get married!
