After the bail I hope the mother have got Ramadhani about the claims that it is said that due to some of the United Nations, they are saying that because of seventies, during the second part of trials, I think this because it becomes looking at it the fate of their big responsibilities for people.
When this price is yours, I was a modem.
They know what?
There is a must that everything in the city is a teaser when he is a lot for people, they worked well.
One of the water who gave birth to a way I heard this is the our language that makes it mean that the government has a cry for instance a lot for many people why you have never been done, the same education should also be similar to you.
Government are going on to get a contest, you find the person until it has come up to build the pipes that is taking it up and he has raised more than the rains to be without soon, I can ask for five father questions before people.
Coughing, without knowing if you go here is the cost of their citizens, we see that some of the people have died every time people do not want to say God is why in a place where you know we will give you to her sister, what we will give you to her sister.
Another from the ministry of land, housing and development.
Money for a year.
It has said.
They will be separated to be there.
Some of the areas.
The law of Mister Almighty God because they are saying that people of the rains are expected to take place for a period of one hour for the week, dividing more than coal in the areas where your business is hard to do it.
Welcome to him.
Mister Rished.
But separate things among others but he was arrested with my house, those residents of a letter and Africa is so much.
Doing it is good again and do exercises when you face the church, God bless you, is in hand in hand with the desire of peace here in the homes have put the incident.
The things that you will not affect infrastructure through some people have not mentioned a dream of looking for him.
Until now, people who came to arrest the noise because that will be there, there will be three effects of people who are doing that the sun is in a place and cinemas, because we have arrived, use the same way, "he said.
