
Research of non-infectious diseases are not less than malaria, AIDS.
Non-infectious diseases are the ones that does not be sold to another person because they are not non-related diseases, heart and blood cells, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, diabetes, and others to inherit the paper.
In the ongoing countries, Tanzania including road accidents, the effects that are brought by the sun, have been put in the list of diseases that are not infected.
According to World Health Organization (WHO), non-infectious diseases are leading in the deaths in the world for now.
A new research has said that for now, 7239 percent of deaths in the world have been caused by non-infectious diseases, has been a major impetus in the research that was done by Nature in 2007 has reported that non-communicable diseases are increasing fast compared to non-infectious diseases.
Research shows that the heart disease has reduced by 2 percent of 2, cancer (157) diabetes (19), with other non-communicable diseases by 157 percent and accidents (93).
That is contrary to the non-infectious diseases which are increasing at an average of 30 percent, AIDS for now is carrying 29 percent and other diseases of non-communicable diseases by 209 and the situation is in Tanzania?
Due to the regular statistics of the country in the country in the research that was done in the year 2012, it shows that 926 to 6 percent of blood pressure diseases have already started using drugs, the situation that is making them to be in danger of getting non-communicable diseases.
That research has given answers of the increase of patients who suffer from non-communicable diseases in the country including diabetes, heart disease, cancer and a lung problem.
According to the research of Tanzania, Steps Entertainment, which was done in the country 2012, 26 percent of the blood poured and already they had already entered into the medical system by the chairman of the union of non-communicable diseases in the country.
He says that in the previous results of the research, the repetition showed that they are facing the blood pressure diseases, it has been easy to get various non-communicable diseases like heart, diabetes, cancer and other diseases.
However, he says non-infectious diseases have been causing conflicts arising from the system of life, eating foods that have been prepared well, the use of discrimination and drinking alcohol.
"Among them 5,348 people are aged 25-64, those who bought this research, approximately 5 percent, 30 percent and 30 percent have increased, 87 percent and 30 percent have the problem of the increase in blood," says Doctor Kamani.
While explaining the effects of non-communicable diseases in the world, the vice chairperson of CDA Tanzania, Professor Andrew Chenge, says more than 56 million deaths compared to 38 deaths arising from non-communicable diseases, what should happen in order to reduce non-infectious diseases.
He says Tanzania is required to reduce by 25 non-infectious diseases to reach the year 2018 in accordance with the session of the executive council of the United Nations that took place in the year 2011 and the second meeting in the year 2014.
"Up to now, we have not arrived anywhere more than non-communicable diseases not with priority and instead of buying all diseases are going on in non-infectious diseases, HIV, malaria and fruits, a situation that causes a big increase in non-infectious diseases," says Professor Swai.
One of the patients that live with non-infectious diseases, Innocent Mongi, says, "the government is required to put policies and law to be forced to see people who have already been affected by these diseases and put strategies of protecting those diseases, but also controlling the advertisements and business of these diseases."
He gives an example of a total of natural medicine and non-communicable diseases which are trusted by many people who have drug abuse, something that is not true.
Issues of considering one of the issues that contribute to the increase in these diseases is the changes in life procedures that involve actions of causing disease.
One of the exercises, to sit in the class, in the office or check the television for a long time and not to participate in sports.
Also, eating food is not fit, eat food to continue with the body's needs and therefore let me leave, eat vegetables and fruits in their body needs.
Other reasons that were mentioned are together with the use of alcohol using an amount, smoking of discrimination of drugs and shivered.
Five important things to consider what is mentioned is to consider the regulations of eating, doing exercises or work that give birth or check up to time, especially for weight and symptoms of diseases like diabetes, blood pressure, the blood is merciful, so as to prevent it in the previous steps.
Symptoms of these diseases on adults, the following can be signs of one of those diseases to reduce weight and get tired without a lot of pain when you do not see anything or lack of pain or getting into a long distance or getting into a little distance.
Lack of relief out at night time, the heart to go to the race, to change the behavior of an emblem such as usual, a bit tricky subject is normal, doughing, depending on a big portion, in urine and so on.
On the side of a woman is when he comes from blood outside the normal circulation of pregnancy, during the wedding act or just after getting married or liquid food or boiling, FGM, lack the desire to do a wedding act and emerging with sores.
The other signs are supposed to see the eyes, a chameleon and fear without any reason, having the anger of the time, being unable to fulfill the responsibility, drinking alcohol, smoking cigarettes in large numbers and see the things that the other people are not involved.
Next week do not mean a continuation of research that there must be close to all human beings they are suffering from five diseases.
Opinion or questions do not get health, Kalist Yachile and 77114889 percent.
