Zanzibar and Sheikh Karume did not have discrimination.
January 17, 2014.

There are a lot that the Revolutionary Party of Zanzibar in the year 2014 were unable to do and didn't take place for 50 years later the revolution are very old and have already been unable to fulfill his promises.
There are some who put up, again when he was presenting, the slogan of "revolution always, but for sure, if you will see that this slogan is like a bomb that goes up because it has a lot of violence but it does not mean anything.
All that Revolutionary Party does not fulfill the good things since that revolution had a great goals.
The foundation stone on this is an aim to address the discrimination of every kind and bring equality to the community as the ordinary citizens succeeded to stop their discriminating each other themselves by bad luck and by bad luck, this is the fact of the condition of the situation.
What's something is to see those people who use dirty language when they are forced to identify their fellow citizens in selling of CCM they should be stopped from their party, though the fire is going on contrary to the official policies of the party.
50 years after the Revolutionary Party, which one of its goals were to bring equality, still people of.
And ready to compensate more that he was supported by the police force, an instrument that was made up of its nation and its citizens, that was said "the son to a slave 'was a lesson."
The situation was not recently during the state of Karume, true the human rights were surrounded by many people, but there was no witnesses who made them to build their country and that he had a great desire to be afraid among the people of Zanzibar.
The effects that can be caused by government whose challenges are very big and we have seen, for example, how discrimination has caused people with skills who have not admitted their country by Turo after in the year 1972.
Some of the people in Mainland Tanzania have skills and knowledge offered to strengthen various development sectors in the mainland especially the education sector since many teachers were forced to move to the mainland they were received with two hands.
Others exploded a lot of boundaries and did it end to countries of the African continent.
After the end of the peak of the 50 years of Revolution, it is a time to look for the future of the future of Zanzibar and to take action that will enable Zanzibar to have the future of a good and good system especially because the close is expected to have a new system of its relationship with Tanganyika.
One of the first steps that should be taken is to inspect the constitution of Zanzibar so as to do important institutions of dollars like the court and the police to be able to implement their work without integrity and politicians in government heads.
One way, for example, to prevent them is to urge them to address citizens of the president and take them to some of his authority in the council of representatives, main instrument they will enable the law to involve the public in the decision of administration.
