

United Nations and big financial institutions in the world have often met with African leaders to discuss ways that can help the economic growth and sustainable development in the continent.
That is going hand in hand with the growth of the economy in the recent years despite challenges that are there from the ones that are there from the cost of the world economy.
In those discussions, big nations or institutions are emphasized to the good use of money they provide as a loan or donations due to corruption, it may have this continent.
However, those big nations and those financial institutions have their contribution to the presence of a lot of insects in Africa when it comes to the issue of the use of donations or loans.
A lot of money can be able to allow money that had been found and they got to get into their bank accounts or enable the collection of taxes by knowing or not knowing.
A good example is the recent report, which is the real meaning of this article that makes a finger to a big financial institution for controlling the collection of taxes.
According to the non-governmental organization of OXFAM Tanzania, a big level of loans that is given by the department of service delivery to the bank's loans' service, 'Africa continues to companies that involve the property on an amount of tax payment.
According to OXFAM, the 84 percent of the investment of that unit of International Finance Limited (IFC), in the south of the Sahara Desert in the year 2015 was opened to the company which its use in the areas to evade taxes, has no great relationship with their work and there is a high level.
So that the report, IFC said the analysis of OXFAM was in the market and that in all cases, the unit will enable the companies that run its projects to respect the laws that are used, including the law on taxes.
According to OXFAM report, Azam FC has invested more than 34 billion US dollars in the South African region in the year 2015 and 75 percent of 68 companies that were using loans were using taxes used by tax collection.
"For allowing investment in those areas to take advantage of the poor income, they need to fight out of poverty and lack of equality," said Nick Bryne when OXFAM head involved with lack of equality.
But the Azam FC has continued to claim that OXFAM has managed to use the thoughts that are available in those areas without doubt that they've not paid taxes.
"This report means that all the authorities of the outside or foreign stations are safe and safe areas, because it is outside, and that investment in big international business is the collection of taxes," said Frederick Sumaye, the spokesperson of Azam FC, when he spoke with the Saleh Jembe Fund.
"There is a legal use of the systems that are available in the islands so as to maintain peace and" correct use of financial stations in those areas can increase private capital because of the investment that will help the poor people. "
