
Entrepreneurs benefit from PPF.
Sei 29, 2016.

Entrepreneurs now do not have reasons for lack of social security services, after the pension fund of PPF to start the Wote Scheme 'fund to enable them get old pension funds, treatment, education and development loans.

That system is aimed at people who are self-employed in the informal sector including farmers, fishermen, breeders, the ICT groups, business people with shops, food and motorcycle riders, buses and buses.

Until now 7,185 entrepreneurs have joined the system in the Lake Region (provinces of Mwanza, Mara, Kagera, Geita, Geita and Simiyu Region, between August 2015 and September this year.
"We have remember entrepreneurs after seeing that it was forgotten and it has not been contested under the agricultural sector of the community, although it gets a dangerous disasters and that the workers are in an official sector like old, disability, disease and death," said the PPF manager, lake region, Meshach Bandawe.

He has explained that while handing over the medical cards to 105 members of Wote Scheme that was held here in the city last week, where he announced the standards of contributing to the benefits that are given under that system.
"The members are needed to contribute 20,000 shillings for the month, although it is advised to contribute more so that they can benefit more," he said and added that, he also will also pay for their contributions from M-Pesa, Airtel Money, Tigo Pesa, cash money or through the PPF account. "

About the old Wote Scheme benefits, Bandawe has clarified that the party will be unable to pay his pension fund just after contributing 180 months and attaining 50 years of 55 years of PPF in collaboration with the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) will give treatment services to members who has contributed 500 shillings.

"Through the treatment benefits, members will be given all diseases because they have been affected in the national policies and they will be stolen from more than 1,000 hospitals in the country that are on the contract.

"Through the benefits of education loans, a member will get a private loan or for the purpose of children who will be tested from nursery school to form six and this service is being done well by partnering with the Tanzania Post Bank (TPB).

"Through the development benefits of development, members will be able to get this service because of increasing the capital of business after contributing for a period of six months," he said.

However, PPF Pension Fund is welcoming those employed in the official sector to join the Wote Scheme that will be able to benefit from the benefits of education and development loans.

I will end.
