
Most don't have faith in the Parliament of the constitution.
On the 20th of 20th, 2014.

The residents of Dar es Salaam city have told Good Citizen that they don't have faith in the special constitutional parliament, which began work yesterday on Tuesday in Dodoma.
Those opinions are in the research that was done at the end of January and at the beginning of February this year (2014), under the project that is facing our citizens, the Institute for Change and Human Rights Center.
This research of this kind had been done by government institutions, Msondena has said that it will be done and were sworn in under the privacy of our citizens.
In part of the results of that research, many residents of all the three districts in Dar es Salaam who were interviewed in the mobile phone caused lack of faith in the constitutional parliament.
The results of that research show that 42 percent have faith in special constitutional parliament, and 11 percent have no faith in the special Parliament of the constitution and 29 percent said they have faith in that parliament.
Furthermore, together with the members of parliament of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) to use their numbers to pass the motion of the work of the Marist commission, many citizens who were interviewed they wanted the commission to continue.
The issue of the commission to remain in the country was forced to cut off the parliamentary seat in the groups of CCM and opposition, and the expectations of many is that the condition of the constitutional parliament started yesterday in Dodoma town.
As it is for the parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, CCM has many members of parliament and also in special constitutional parliament, a number that makes them an opportunity to make any decisions if it did not continue to continue with the work of the commission of the commission of the constitution.
According to the research, 43 percent wanted the commission to continue with 40 percent they wanted to continue, 15 percent do not show any position and two percent they don't know anything about that issue.
