
Pluijm lead the championship still.
Yanga is in a good position to defend his championship.
Masoud Masasi, Mwananchi Communications Manager @ mkito.
Yanga player, Donald Ngoma (left) taking the ball in front of the prime minister during the premier league game that took place at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza town on Saturday. Picture by Michael Jamila.
Mwanza, despite Yanga having a great opportunity to win the Tanzania Mainland Premier League this season, Coach Hans Pluijm has said that they still have a heavy job of defending that championship since the remaining matches were left.
Yanga has attained 65 points after Saturday, causing Toto Africans 2-1 in the game that was played at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in this city.
Pluijm said that can't jump because they are leading the league until now and see you have already won the championship because they still have a heavy work in four that were left.
However, after a draw of Simba and Azam yesterday, Yanga now needs to win two matches only to be the winner.
He said that for now every match is the finals, therefore they need to win every game so as to get in a good environment to win the championship.
"Four matches are very many, we cannot start saying that we the champions, what is required is to fight until the end of these regional matches is very difficult,"
Said Pluijm.
Speaking about their game against Toto Africans, that coach of Holland said it was difficult especially during the first half, but his youth changed the second period and doing well with victory.
"The game was difficult although we played well in the second period as first we shouldn't know her as well as usual and make sure they got three important points," he said.
He added that for now they are planning to play against Stand United tomorrow in Shinyanga town and said that his great victory is to see what they won the game although you will be difficult, therefore we are organized in the next game against Stand United we will continue to ensure we are complete though they will be difficult, "he said.
Niyonzima is dangerous.
Toto coach, John Tegete has said that Yanga's mid-fielder, Haruna Niyonzima was the player who stopped the game in that game to win 2-1 goals, Tegete said Niyonzima is the player who gave violence since he removed the platform of the mid-fielder and making them not to make a wall.
"If you look for Niyonzima is the one that he had given us again, he only played well in the mid-fielder," said Tegete even so, that coach said together with losing that game, but Yanga is still seen.
