Simba dancing.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The leaders of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, Simba soccer club today have a chance to continue to break up the top of that league's stand if it will play against Atletico Madrid of Songea in a game that will take place at the Majimaji stadium.

Simba have a great opportunity to increase points and to reach 16 points if today they will win, while the defending champions Yanga have 10 points playing tomorrow and Stand United in Shinyanga.
Yanga played four matches when Simba and Azam FC every one has dropped from five times, therefore, Yanga have a great opportunity to reach Simba if they play their second leg.
The Wekundu wa Msimbazi goals have won four matches and from one draw, they will attain 16 points if they will face Majimaji, which since the start of that league has been closed down all the five matches.
Even so, Simba not expect to leave when you are not stolen from 12 strokes and they can be able to find himself and even to be beaten, since Majimaji is looking for it after the beginning of it.
In the last season, Simba defeated Majimaji with 6-1 in their first game at the National Stadium on October 31st this year, before a draw in the repeat game that took place on May 11, this year.
On the side of Azam FC themselves, today they will have a tough time they play against Ndanda FC in a game that will take place at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara town.
Azam are in the third position while Ndanda soccer themselves in the 11 position and will enable them to use well their home ground so as to increase points after winning one game, two seasons and two goals.
That team together with its own kind, but one points was getting in a draw against defending champions Yanga in the game that was played at their Nangwanda Sijaona stadium.
Mtibwa Sugar with nine points will continue to increase three points when they see the teams that had gone into Mbao FC of Mwanza City in another fourth game from last year, thus it needs to make corrections so that they can be served in the low position.
Prisons team will host Mwadui FC of Shinyanga in another game that will take place at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya town.
Tomorrow there will be two matches according to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) when Yanga will play against Stand United while African Lyon with visitors of Kagera Sugar, in a game that will take place at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba town.
