Members of parliament vying for the ministry of health.
Brightiles 5, 2014.

Members of parliament have complained to the government for reducing the budget of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, every year, with the responsibility of looking at the life of contraception?
As a result of the coming up, it has been difficult to reach the Abuja stadium to set aside 15 percent that were accepted by voluntary to Tanzania and signing a contract for the implementation of the implementation.
Chief spokesperson of the opposition camp in parliament, Doctor Anthony Mbwette, contributing to the speech by the Minister of Health, Doctor Seif Rashid, about the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2014 / 2015, he said for four consecutive years of funds that have been built.
He said for the financial year of 2010 / 2011, the funds that were paid is 1261, in the year 2011 / 2012 (105-0) in the year 2012 / 2013 (109 percent) and last year 2013 / 2014 (109 percent).
"67,888 trillion shillings have been built because of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, shillings 390,212,31000 shillings have been requested for the normal use and 467,888 trillion shillings for the purpose of development activities.
"This budget has reduced by a sum of BA1724 compared to the budget of the financial year 2013 / 2014 and compared to amount of money that was set aside for development activities, has also reduced by 24- 1 percent," he said.
Professor David Mwakyusa, (Rungwe West - CCM), said that they are Botswana alone at the end of the stadium in Abuja.
He said there is no sector that can produce a high price in the health sector, but he was announced to see the Ministry of Health missing from the implementation of the plan of Twilumba Mlelwa (BRN).
Professor Mwakyusa has called to lead that ministry, he complained about the drop of the budget every year, something that affects the performance.
That has also been questioned about the standing committee of the Parliamentary Committee on Social Services, while his delegate, Gregory Chegere, presenting a report of the committee.
He said that committee has not been satisfied by the level that was set aside and urged the money to be given to the purchase of drugs, medical equipment and reagents.
The committee has also requested the government to pay his debt to the Supreme Court of drugs (MSD), which is continuing to grow, "said until May this year, the debt had 89 billion shillings, which is affecting the availability of drugs, medical equipment and reagents.
He also said approximately 80 percent of drugs, medical equipment and the reagents that were donated by MSD is ordered from outside the country.
As a result of that, the committee has emphasized to the government to make the review of policy for domestic industries so as to produce their ability and build a friendly environment to improve investment of the industries so that they can take care of medicine, medical equipment and reagents.
He also said that the government will prepare to have a partner of MSD in implementing its responsibilities, a step that will bring success.
The committee has advised the government's law of food, drugs, and cosmetics (TFDA) to be responsible so as to enable the suspects in the law.
He has also advised the law that is implementing the implementation of research to be responsible to control bad use of research.
That step said it aims to enable the Institute of Human Diseases (NIMR), to implement its responsibility of doing research and also the government is required to have a full preparations to serve the projects after sponsors for the time of improving services.
Doctor Mbughuni said the drugs for the debt is to pay, therefore the government has given the debt to MSD, which is due to paying the cost of collecting funds for donations and projects when they reached the port.
Mbizo said that the camp has advised the ministry to reject the donations which the drugs are brought in the country, are in the last steps of its use.
"The results are receiving drugs that do not have a donation to citizens and to make sure that a huge cost of buying drugs while you came without a primary reason," he said.
About the council of natural medicine, he said the opposition camp wants to know which many members have been registered, if the medical camp is allowed to do the action taken against the human beings who have been arrested by human organs or to provide natural medicine that doesn't sell its customers.
However, Doctor Rashid, in his speech, urged the experts of natural therapy and alternative treatments to stop immediately to market themselves as a capacity to provide treatment against any disease whose ability are not yet known.
He said that is why in accordance with the law that started a traditional and alternative treatments.
"There are news about having the ability to treat AIDS, diabetes and blood pressure diseases in accordance with the law of natural therapy and alternative treatments, the advertisements will be released immediately," he said.
Doctor Rashid said that the ministry will give guidance on the procedure that is supposed to be followed so that the involved drugs should be taken back.
