
Five criminals have not been allowed to have been taken to river bridge.

Five people are believed to have robbers who have been shot dead until they were trying to escape the power of the public by using River Mara, Tarime District, while having two attacks that are used to fight for the type of breast cancer.

That event was confirmed by the police commander of the special region of Tarime / Rorya, Lazaro Mambosasa.

Commander Mambosasa said that those people who were killed in that incident the day before yesterday morning have not been known to the names or guardians.
However, he said that on the incident, those criminals have had weapons of war, they were seen they have flooded the farm close to the residence of the residents of Nyabugombe Ward, Bugarama Ward, Engiten of Serengeti district.

But after switching off them, they had been surrounded by citizens with traditional weapons including stones, a piece of death, where the robbers came up by garnering 13,276 votes so that the citizens should welcome him.

While they bombed his mother who has left Salgo to one citizen, Kagimu Paul McDononda, and also increase the death of citizens who continues to save it at the area that they may face.

Am, the end that the vote has brought together many people the time was going to the amount of those criminals being left behind and decided to run away from River Mara, so as to go to the second side of the Serengeti district.

Commander says, "the residents of that village and neighboring villages came out in large numbers since it was in the afternoon by dealing with those people while they were rushed to Mara province to cross that river from Serengeti district to enter the park, but their efforts are forced to cross the river.

"The citizens of the villages in the second side of Serengeti district, came out and covered in a state, a situation that forced the suspects to enter the field and broke the weapons that they were affected by water and that's when they were shot dead in the water and dies.

"Our police force is praised to help reduce the bodies of five people, where one was having 11 points in the pocket and another one was having four hours and money from Kenya 7 million shillings which is believed to have been selected to be the citizens of the neighboring country of Kenya."

At the moment, the bodies of those people were reserved for the bodies of Tarime District Hospital, while the police force is going on with investigation on the incident.

And the senior medical officer of Tarime District Hospital, Doctor Bernard Makaka has confirmed to receive the bodies of five people that was brought in that hospital with the police vehicle while the death of the late did not want jokes in getting a lot of water before being buried and death.

That is the second event in a period of three weeks where August 3 this year, four people, including three Tanzanian citizens and one Tanzanian shillings were killed due to events of robbery in Mrara village.
