We are still continuing with national reports to the religious leaders in the country and the Tanzanians in general, you are required to build a culture by sponsors and obey all the authorities that are in the world because from the Almighty God, in the state of churches in the whole country.
Christopher Erasto Makalla has said that is the reason for citizens to start doing violence and demonstrations without having a permit from the concerned authority is to go against the instructions of the Almighty God for more information that has been written from Singida province.
In the fifty years since the establishment of the Catholic church in Iramba, Singida province, the accused of the chairperson of churches in the province, Bishop Erasto Makalla has benefited more in urging the believers and the community in general to obey the authorities.
To do the protests.
After the game well for someone who is currently underway.
Maybe if they were given the demonstrations by the journalists, I have not given birth to not yesterday to expand and save the government.
If you are.
Why are those reasons related?
The late God created some of the bishop Makalla has called on the community especially young people not to sell in violence instead, they should stay in peace and harmony in order to get the opportunity of worship God and to do development activities.
The word of God like what he said, wants you to be safe and that you get this law again, it has been able to find a safe time Agnes shivered.
You will enable that authority but with taking them?
Mary says he is heard of the authority.
In there he did not say?
On his part, the prime minister, Honorable Mizengo Pinda in a speech read on behalf of the head of the province I will look for him about the process of the new constitution to my call again so that the day will not be completed.
Let me give me a lot of things to use.
Today in Dar es Salaam city, he was officially launched in the district of Iramba Singida this year, approximately four hundred and four hundred thousand, currently, I have celebrating 50 years of fifty years and is heading to other provinces in the country.
