The process of the constitutional process, we sat at a tree 'branch where it stopped.
May 29, 2014.

At the time I was going on with this debate which aims at providing my thoughts about the position of media houses in the new constitution, the process itself has reached a trap.
In continuing the meaning of democracy I have come back in the context of the history, to show that we don't be careful with this process, we will return the tree branch where we will return.
Being stuck for discussions at the constitutional parliament to start the morning and early after the groups participating in showing off and held as BISON.
A group of politicians in the opposition, under the chairmanship of the Citizens Union Constitution (UKAWA), were unable to succeed in the process after seeing their thoughts are caused by the ones of the group of many.
In addition to that, the group led by the party in power that he decided to come from his numbers to continue discussing on the draft constitution without the existence of political parties, the decision to pass the draft constitution was supposed to be done by two-thirds of the delegates from the mainland and in the islands where there were rumors that we have made.
But also, even before the concerned groups to start before storming and downloading easily, the delegates of the constitutional parliament did not think about it on the way of the process themselves.
If you do not think about the meaning that you will enable us to protect themselves with the eyes of the ones that enable us to see very close and not where we are going to build a conducive environment for consent.
We want to come here because it is an important question that we are supposed to consider some of this period in which the debate has reached a trap together with that it has reduced the budget of this year's budget to continue with its schedule.
For sure, up to now, there should be a long silence about what is supposed to take place but there is no longer a problem and it contributes to lack of problems it is what caused the Jew of the debate each time when you start, "or let him easily."
The delegates of UKAWA which are holding on that can't return to parliament because the debate on the debate will be those that gave him to parliament and that time they have succeeded in power and at the time they have succeeded to change the sections of the law on constitutional changes so that they can continue with the process of improving.
In addition to that conflict and conflicts like this is important in the construction of democracy, it can also have great effects if every group wants to score goals, "therefore we should not affect the concerned sector, which is happening now in the process of creating a constitution of the country can be seen to be a heated game.
For my knowledge, and if I have been explained in the past, any democracy that give birth to rights, peace, unity, and development is the outcome of internal auditors and even the fight which its fate is to put environment, systems (administrative and life) that is failed and can benefit all community members.
If the history led to him, these times give birth to great effects especially where there will help to change the system that is associated with others, which they believe they have the origin rights of benefit from them and even when changes are required to benefit and protect them due to human resources that are not able to benefit from them.
In his a 2010 book called 'Ambassador West Rubea Tetemesha Entertainment, Jews have visited the history of various nations, maybe it comes up to the western countries, therefore, he says in the seventh century of Christ, East African countries (China) were in front of development.
Musona is worried about the argument that history has resulted in the fight between the person who wanted the systems that are being complained about by making changes and that the community has been able to solve different conflicts, though when the stars have found themselves as the stars affected by their citizens themselves.
