When the country is self-looking at the CCM mirror. "
Jo'clock, 2015.

Recently when I am happy in Mwanza, we were displayed through television, CCM led by his secretary general, Abdulhussein, Kinana is doing his public rally.
It was a incident to conclude the tour of walking the whole country including district, ward and the villages that was done by Abdulahman an, Kinana and his team. What I used to think when I look at that incident at Mwanza.
I see a lot and let me know the truth that they probably left is what I wanted to see or not when I'm in the opposition, including some leaders of the opposition parties that it will be said to see him from the opposition party because some of the opposition are not supposed to see, it's only one, inside CCM.
Although there is also need for those who are in the opposition to make corrections, but there is no wonder for the opponents to follow up through the revolutionary party.
Basically, CCM is more than the political party because it is a big institution that is leading in the country through CCM carrying more than 44 million shillings in a situation where CCM was not supposed to have a bond of creating a member of parliament of the United Republic, who will cost a lot of 90 days before going to vote, he is expected to come from the Revolutionary Party.
And that was seen when I am happy when they are happy in Mwanza Town, it is a good work of any political party to work for a long time, in the time we have now, if a political party does not want jokes in the time we have.
Philosopher Benjamin Say has says that all the primary authorities are faith, we are responsible in implementing our authority, and that the authority will benefit from people, because of people, and caring for all the thoughts that are not allowed to be done, "Benjamin Saiwa.
In looking at what he said, can we see, that the work of the Revolutionary Party is not supposed to be independent to the public in a question that is being done by the government, instead, the party is supposed to be the side of the public.
And because the government is supposed to be the implementation of those that were decided on behalf of the public, then, the great job of the political party is not requesting the government in serving its duties well by the secretary general of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana and his colleagues have done a work of removing the mountains in the CCM ticket.
It should also be remembered, in the country, the development of democracy and the economic development is increasing more because there is a difference of us intellectually and there is good and important thing for the development of the country, political, community and economically.
Therefore, the development of democracy and economic development is also contributed by the presence of citizens who have the ability to assess the donations that are generated from others in the concerned community.
It is important to carry out and politicians who have the ability to resolve issues and come up with different issues concerning the interests of the country, instead of issues that aim to cause politics and economic development.
Nasinsisted here, the presence of many parties of many parties is a good thing to the country, but lack of keen in running many parties of many parties, in order to reduce good governance of many political parties, because many parties are also good to build and protect the interests of the country.
And here we are where CCM has been the best way for the country to register them and this is a sustainable debate.
