
RC, Shinyanga can't want jokes.

It has been written by Karav Dhingra, Shinyanga.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Shinyanga, Zainabu Telack has urged the directors and land officers and the environment inside the council who have not arrived at the session of stakeholders in the environment and forests to give information to them not to attend to them at the ruling party in the province.

He has said today that, he will not be a representative again in its sessions, but a person who was admitted for disease.
The Head reached where you are annoyed by that sitting after they have been forced to inform the instructions that were sent away since the resolutions were given directors in implementation, he claimed that if the one who was not allowed will be presented if the person will not be submitted.
Telack has said that some of the workers have been being faced with lack of weight in the session and taking action against the holiday is why others have presented a topic without having good reports in writing.
"I am saying the directors and public officials and the environment who are not arrived today in this session if the reports have been sent within two weeks, to give explanations about the statement made when there were different decisions now had sent the message that will be presented by them," he said.
The administrative secretary of Shinyanga province, Albert Manifester (left) after a speech by the provincial commissioner and the adviser of the provincial commissioner, Edusei for a tree planting program in every council that they are expecting to climb more than 10 million trees in the whole province, and every household takes shillings.
The lands and natural resources officer of the council of that council, Marco Rubio has said they are expecting to produce 390,536 billion shillings and the acting director of Kishapu District Council, Jumanne Maghembe, said the tree planting exercise is 400,000 shillings and they have already started to encourage primary and secondary schools for a tree planting trees.
In that meeting on the side of the council of Kishapu District Council, there was the acting director who is the Public Service Officer, Shinyanga District Council, attended the Acting Director Julius Mulongo, Municipal Council of Shinyanga was not there, the Council of Shinyanga district will not be there, the director of the District Council will not be there.
