
Ocean Road organization donated 75 million shillings.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

KCB bank has given to the Cancer Institute of Ocean Road 75 million shillings in charge of the request of the institution to that bank for the purpose of renovating the Tibakemikali ward.

Speaking during the handover ceremony which was attended by the Minister of Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu, the Executive Director of the bank, Moivo has said that the contribution is inside the priorities of the bank in investment to help communities that are in need.
"Barclays Bank Tanzania has donated accountability to the community which is a big level aims at areas of priorities in education, health, environment, entrepreneurship and its goals, especially to focus on issues of his humanity," said Mari.
Mia said that to be noted that since it was opened here in Tanzania in the year 1997, the bank has been specializing in helping the community. The director said that cancer is a dangerous disease, which has been affecting many people and revealed that, that is the biggest reason that has made KCB Bank Tanzania, to decide to give support so as to help the government's efforts in controlling and serving them.
He said that through the pension fund of KCB Bank (KCB Bank), the financial institution in a period of three years ago has been involved in various projects of improving health which has been beneficial to the community.
Regarding the training, the Executive Director explained that KCB bank has given a professional training for 10 midwives in order to enable them to provide health services in the villages along with the towns.
"Also, KCB Bank has given a great contribution in the financial and health sector where in three years ago, we have been able to contribute approximately seven hundred million shillings," Mari said.
Speaking at that event, Minister Ummy congratulated Vodacom Tanzania for its contribution and called for other stakeholders to follow the example of distribution of the bank, claiming that the government had a donation from all sectors because it can't achieve their goals alone.
The Ocean Road organization has been giving treatment of "Rhema Trust, with 4,008 patients.
