Other accidents, we used to keep in my class to Zanzibar has lost their lives of people in the same Island where most of you go down here, the late God bless you, you will give him information about the accident occurred in the islands of Zanzibar.
Defender Zakaria is Mshereheshaji Shebe Machumani.
If you say it's another cry for Tanzanians when we go to Dar es Salaam, we had already heard that there is a boat that has sunk in the same field so that you can be able to change what happened at the stadium, "we saw the commission.
In which I have been blessed with God, you have not been very close to work together and said overturned when the incident happened in the scene of the scene and the activities that are estimated to be taxed.
First issues by touching the tourists from those who have succeeded in the house of father.
You want to inform me, it was organized by many people and up to now, there will be a prayer in Dar es Salaam to advise the fact that many people do not lie!
And good thing is not yet known, according to the reports that are facing them that he was to be found.
For a sister to say the father to say the father will not be careful when you know how alcohol issues are also water from Kenya?
How is it that where I have been in the party or have lost life.
After getting the scene of the incident that was witnessed.
Their Ahenkora has said that the Zanzibar board still can sell coldness, while in addition to the father to come up with the reason why her sister was greeted by the delegates of the council of representatives.
I hope.
Maybe this until now, the deceased does not affect the bodies that can affect the presence of how many kilograms of how we will go to school, we will go to school where there are products not to get in the stomach after then.
Little of us.
But the?
We have gone back there.
A two that will go here is a third daughter together with people.
I am happy to thank you so much and we will continue to follow up and we will continue to follow up with you, if there will be a lesson so that we should give you a lot about the accident that happened at night in the evening and we should give him a statement on the same day before yesterday morning.
