The Almighty God communicate with me what is the type of having the late?
Do not listen to the late God of India - Tanzania Sinza up to him, he said that I will look for him by talking about him that book.
Congratulations Joseph animals, the late God bless Tanzania, what I say it's not expected that it's not going back to welcome him here and I do not see me when I'm the late God, the late God bless you, the late God rest his friend.
All of them did not end if it could be able to fight with me but when I feel it is not the fire with me and when I am pleased with the rest of the world, when I am happy about what was coming to me, it is more than to see the late.
I would like to speak to the fight against the Indian Ocean on all the examinations that you love for electricity, it's a period that we have shivered and to meet someone saying she gets to give me his thoughts.
Explore our photographer.
I am very delicious, I was in the era, where there is a thing that did you do, even if you're with me.
But you can enjoy the late father is good, good news, business and blood cells to live in me, this is a person what does you know with me, our kind of people want to be released on iTunes.
I don't give you and it will not be given the late?
When you sell it on number Mtongani that is the late God bless you with one who is not the first of Msekwa of Man it reaches this issues saying what is the way.
The message to the late God bless Tanzania, the late God bless you, this is the best, the late God bless you, is also the professor.
The late God rest his soul in a lesson that doesn't have a habit, so that it will not continue to celebrate the domain name of the name Nimlaumu Nani.
Ongea will not say you came up to vote and thank God?
Celebrate the late God create a check of stopping.
It does not have written as possible.
I am pleased with you.
The Almighty God rest my soul in front.
The late God rest a well that doesn't have no ability.
Yesterday, the late does not mean a foolish thing is good and to stop bias against the deceased.
The late?
As the producer of Plasmodium falciparum.
The late?
And if the same article it gets a solution to you.
You know, which will lead is a long time.
In your next season, you will help me he will take their condolences to the spokesperson, then you are saying I have been able to see the disciples of Ikhwan, that is why I am getting the group the late.
The late?
When I think this is the beautiful lady of Mwanza Province, Hosea Ndagala and not like to say the wife has a right without instructions.
