Eyes too.
In the fact that they meet with our president is a good step.
And in fact, if the situation will like you to see the state of economy and the state of our country that I will go as required to the citizens we like to now.
But the head of who will be forced to choose the president.
We want to have the criteria or to have the ability like him too.
John Pombe Joseph Magufuli first to welcome him on this.
All their employers do not work as required but he is given permission from the president.
We do not want a minister who does good, and tension that you are not satisfied with his leaders to do so, where we are and where we are still a youth, which is not only a youth, whom they find another one to improve itself.
A youth who is why we need to need the prime minister to be a leader and it's not the first lady and it is a meaning that it comes, he wants them to come and speak to the citizens that this condition was and he will not need the prime minister to raise us.
If you expect it to happen here you need the prime minister to talk to the citizens by knowing the problem?
According to our leader, we are expecting our president to lead the new prime minister as part of all new provincial lawyers to promote our colleagues in the Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete evening in the evening.
That in order to avoid bad luck, he writes that you're very difficult, we can make sure that everyone sees them, but if you look at each other, you know that everything is difficult to make sure you get a good job that cannot fly the government the late.
I think it is a person who is supposed to be the one who knows it?
And what does it mean to be done especially the one who can help our president, who has the ability to know the best leader who will be the first to know the problems of the citizens under the citizens.
To go to a high level, there is another leader with hope.
In addition to the rich and the rich and all the poor as 97 percent go to continue with our hundred problems and many things and in the campaign we have talked and that they will follow keenly the problems of the citizens of the phone to the prime minister.
I believe that maybe if he is being taken to the opposition parties for the position of being?
Ras Kiduku was able to be careful, it does not pay more than through the party.
Because I have seen many changes that we said to give you an example.
If that was the third phase.
He ever told him that if you want to continue, I know the man of the name.
But by bad luck this year.
Since the good team from the opposition.
Therefore, even if there will be an chief lawyer who will be elected I would have advised that he should have without looking for the first nation than any party that deals with people's prime minister, who is a hard working decisions.
Therefore, in my opinion I think because it is enough for the prime minister as the president and he is difficult to choose the child, I think that who engaged to Mister Edward Lowassa, because he has got a support of many people and also his work seems to be hard.
I would love?
I would like to get to January Makamba, apart from the parties that maybe the party we can carry the but the prime minister did not lose hope that maybe Zitto Kabwe did not expect it.
If there is a probability that you know the new system that will make it be able to move at your pace here.
I've heard the first they have.
The good executive officer of work and he is happy to be the prime minister with more ability, who has shown that I wouldn't want to give birth to one of the editors and after doing well and one who had a difficult decisions to allow me I think it is very difficult.
The late?
