In the whole time when you know if you are forced to prevent you close to the Indian Ocean is known as your news reporter in East Africa, we will look at international news on sports news and the economy we will join with international news here in the country we have started with news reports.
One day after the specialist doctors announced to join the strike that is going on in the country, the management of Muhumbili National Hospital today has given a statement about the state of trend of medical services for patients, we find information.
The senior relations officer of that hospital has called me, he said that he gets into the strike of provision of medical services continuing to be released on an average of an average in few patients just when he arrived at the referral hospital for its treatment.
He says that for those services, when the services they have continued to be released on four points in those phones, lack of dangerous treatment, the surgery for treatment services and working on.
He clarified that doctors from the medical department have arrived at work and work as usual where they have land to patients up to the afternoon.
Regarding the departments, he said that services happened but it is not same and how the operation was done before the strike of doctors and medical services.
The are taking place but not with the level that all of them are done and this is due to the members of parliament.
The late Adam and the budget is new.
The late God rest the surgery that is in the ward, it has also been found and then it is a few they will take.
Still we have never done each other.
At the same time the federation for staff parties in TUCTA has requested doctors to change their stand and return to work while their claims will be dealt with by the government.
Now the government is not feared.
The late God bless you in a little way or comes back.
This activity is done.
They do not give what they get to find him while he will be found.
Then, by those doctors and not knowing that problem which the government has put yourself.
So as to be?
When we go to Dar es Salaam, we will be able to reach the right time that will have benefits to doctors and the government has become citizens in general in this area of the health sector.
