Ukawa goes back to parliament.
APR of 23rd, 2014.

The decision by some of the delegates of the constitutional parliament from parliament showed up to the direction of many members in parliament is a decision that need to be changed immediately and these delegates return to parliament without any conditions, they will participate in the debate and finally the decision of the new constitution.

The decision to boycott the sessions because of caring about the words that and them are participating in parliament there are bad symptoms of whom they want to boycott the parliament, they want them to boycott the city.

But it is unacceptable, because the opponents and all those who feel that the debate has been abducted by CCM "it does not give the truth! Since the beginning of this process, the constitution of the constitution was clear and that the process seems to be followed because it was open before them?

There is no one person in this season that is called the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) who can say that CCM will use its numbers to ensure that the bill passed through the Parliament with many members of CCM it will be the chairperson of the council of representatives who will be put in that parliament because all of them were seen in that parliament but all of them were seen in that parliament?

That the issue of two governments that have not been asked by CCM is expecting to make them read the way it did not tell them, when the ruling party did not change his government policies in the beginning of ninety years after beating them well by Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.

Contrary to people they believe Nyerere did not want three governments, he said that it was not a CCM policy as the ruling party of the former prime minister of Tanzania John Masele, he said that by all those with his fellow CCM members, "we believe that the third government system will affect the union of politics and economically."

Nyerere in his book said it is clear that, "the citizens of Tanzania did not witness the Tanganyika Law Society, and I am saying, when you go back to Tanganyika, you will stop Tanzania and also those of the ones that killed Tanzania, finally they face Tanganyika."
How do I interview the statistics of Warioba?

One of the most important things that if I am surprising me is how people want to inform the statistics of Judge Warioba if they stop the stone.

This is not correct for Julius Nyerere on what his leadership 'book that was formed by the president which if it did the commission of Judge Warioba asked the legality of the commission that was done by citizens especially this one was coming from the commission of Judge Warioba as it is coming from the commission of Judge Warioba.

Nyerere explained how the leaders of CCM in parliament were sent to switching off the motion of three governments in parliament and he says that they are required to show them to their colleagues - as leaders - the third government is not the policies of CCM.

He talked about this issue in his book, "our leaders have been sent by their party to go to the parliament, parliament, a lot of party members to stop using that party and they don't recognize that our leaders can't accept when they get married or they did not accept when they were unable to abandon their results.
