
He was sacked from NCCR-Revolution that complained to the registrar.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been reported, 24 October, 2016.

The former vice chairperson of the NCCR-Revolutions Party, Tanzania Mainland, Leticia Masaudi, has taken the complaints from the leadership and membership of the party to the registrar of political parties in the country.

The National Executive Council of NCCR-Revolution, denied the leadership and membership, Mashada stadium, July 16th this year on various accusations.
He said that he did so because the registrar is the one with the authority to register names of senior leaders of political parties, according to article 8A (1) and (2) of the formation of 24,258 women and political parties.
He said his election as the vice chairperson of the party on the side of Tanzania Mainland was done by the general meeting in accordance with article 8-1 (1) of the law of political parties, therefore, his complaints will be taken to the office of the registrar.
"The registrar has the authority to try one of the senior leaders as a leader or leaders not have the reputation that go with article 10A (a), (b), (C) and (d) of the law of political parties," he said.
He said because of this reason, it's not true that the work of the registrar is to receive names of chief leaders without checking if the leaders have the reputation of being leaders or not.
He said that apart from the work of registering political parties, the registrar has the authority to do other jobs which were formed by the Political Parties, this is according to article 4 (4) of the law of political parties.
Masaudi, said that the decision will be done by the registrar about its complaints, they will enable them to be remembered or to be taken to any court in the country, according to section 6 of the political parties law.
He claimed that the session of the executive council of that party made the allegations, he received it, to build him, without giving him his constitutional rights to be heard and suspend the membership and leadership.
