The laws have been growing, the youth did not get a chicken from the development fund when it comes up and there is no women in every corner of the city or the district is required to set aside ten percent for the loan but those funds are being done by the law and that is facing the council to look at this issue in the city of Mwanza.
Secondly, the business person in the city of Mwanza.
He has a chance to make sure that life continues.
All of them last week?
If you are.
In the age of twenty-five years he did not help the government despite the existence of plans later to help the youth and women don't know where he had never seen there, I don't want to take a loan and things taken to him, he has no house or a car.
She has flown from them.
Or in the mother?
Let us have June this time, it is like a day if you go to a black bikini.
Most of the termite there is not a thing.
When he got a loan I met this loan you will be able to hear that there is still a loan but I have never been because there are drivers who listen to you, you are getting and there are some who do.
It is better and will help a place where loans are successful.
The whole period is making soap and other products.
You that you know, I will go to our entrepreneurs we will go to the city and explained that they are entrepreneurship but I will benefit us.
Therefore we are telling us that we are complaining.
And a letter of request to write a letter from the request to take him and because it is not to see that what is ready to help him have already changed the account.
We were with the commission in our country, our letter and those for registration.
Number of the bank to go for since we managed to do a check here from one million.
For the needs we have used one million shillings to meet.
One million is yours.
Group members are involved in making a lot of traditional stoves in the Lake Region, will make soap, we have making sure that we have continued more after we got the loans which are given to its loans which is provided to these groups.
They need a great capital to destroy it is my hope of dealing.
And someone who think there are farming because it's not important so that we can have sure you get inside, there should be sure there will be sure there will be sure that we have been able to avoid these drugs, so that we have been able to avoid these money until they find out.
Job Ndugai, the development department in Mwanza province is dealing with Benedict Liwenga and Patrice Lumumba, he is the first officer in what we did in which I will do there.
There is a report that I will give yourself through if we know we want to give loans to youths and women who do not want to provide information to youths and women who were alleged there and where we stopped the news that is derived from that, there are women who are close to each women.
Ras Kiduku was forced to work with him.
We do not have faith and what is said to have reached the analysis of the money and they are requesting the project we will put our differences and we are not sure that we are not true or if we are doing a youth or not.
