
Huawei will remember that those who use the phone in June 16, is in the market a new release.

Business Exhibition.
By Rabi Hume.
June 9, 2016.
Having a few days to remove fake phones in Tanzania, while this exercise is expected to affect the millions of mobile phone users in the whole country, the legendary mobile phone company from China, Huawei has continued to be on the front line in ensuring the availability of mobile phones from China.
In order to make this purpose of removing all phones that do not meet in the market and make sure that Tanzanians have a broad range of mobile phones, Huawei Tanzania recently have launched various mobile phones, so as to meet the needs of their customers economically and different parts of life.
Those phones are as G5, Y6 Pro.

We should also be emphasized to ensure that their phones before the month of June, this call has been made by Mister Hu XI, the Huawei manager in Tanzania, insisting that many Tanzanians do not have education and enough understanding of how to verify their phones.
In the moment it is very important to verify your phone when they bought it so as to have sure that the phone is original or even the customer will give a message from TCRA with a mobile phone phone (Huawei Technologies business), "said Mister Jackson.
According to TCRA, approximately 40 percent of mobile phones that are used by Tanzanians are fake phones is not only a threat to mobile phones but also to the government and nation in general, the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) is determined to buy all fake phones in the whole country, Huawei Tanzania so that this plan is continuing to connect all fake phones in the whole country, Huawei Tanzania so that this plan is continuing to connect all fake phones through phone or transactions that are done through the phone and to allow communication to be better in the whole country.
There is a big possibility that happened in Tanzania that any phone with a mirror of contraception is a smartphone when it gives the user to use fake phones in the Tanzanian market.
Also different with people's thoughts that all the products from China are fake or are of low quality, Huawei as an international product has continued to confirm it's stand to make better products to its customers in all their markets.
While explaining that, Mister Sylvester Manyara, the Retail Marketing Manager of Huawei Tanzania, says that the Huawei company is leading in offering the technology of technology and news in the world, this company received a gift of the quality of technology in China, March 29, Huawei got a gift of honor to the international unit and the quality of the quality.
Moreover, the Yellow FEST has given that gift to Huawei at the general meeting hall in Beijing March, 2016, and that is a big gift to China's government for the purpose of products that are quality and products that are of its own kind and people that have been given a gift for a gift.
Speaking about the quality of Huawei equipment, Mister Hu Xia, Chief Manager of Huawei Tanzania said that the phone is proud of us to make sure the customers have set aside more than twenty years, Huawei will continue to make efforts in quality and making products that have stolen from our customers in the world and Tanzania.
The needs of the customers have been on a great directive in the Huawei company from the year 1980, Huawei has set its own customers and aims at making high-quality products in the best than twenty-eight years later, Huawei have been rewarded all over China and foreign countries for the quality of Huawei products now are available more than 70 percent of the company's income from outside markets.
Huawei has set aside its customer care program that is enabling them to get all the views of their customers through phone number, social networks and these views are used in the purpose of providing products on their quality, Huawei has lost more success and held the 88 position.
In general, in the recent reports, it has taken a fine of 47 million dollars in 197, this year has made Huawei be the first Chinese company to get into the best 50, Huawei company has also been identified by an American organization US-based reputation Institute, as the only Chinese company to be among the best ten most popular company in China.
In addition to the cooperation from TCRA, its stakeholders and its customers, Huawei Tanzania has been with a great speed since it started in the Tanzania market and to meet their mobile phones and problems related to those phones, Huawei believes that they will be able to sell all fake phones.
Tanzania is among the countries in Africa including Kenya, Uganda and Zambia which have taken fake phones worth fake phones and Huawei as the leading phone company in Tanzania expects a promise to increase the quality of products by 30 percent every year.
