Tanganyika years 53 in front.
Dec 18, 2014.

December 9, it was my birth day when I launched the holiday for prayer, thank God for now I will continue to increase another year in my age and to ask for more blessings.
Likewise, if there is my birthday born in the past, I launched that day by doing a look for him when I was surprised when I was born with me.
On the birthday is two sides, one of the joy is because of fulfilling another year in life, and the second is to recognize that the age is going ahead, and therefore through different goals to see if they have improved, and to put more efforts, compatible with putting new goals.
Likewise, during the time for young people with small age, the birth day is very happy, where for example, different laws are giving a lot of permission to fulfill some age, for a big age, that holiday is going on with the painful truth that "eight minutes you read."
For a 17 years old, attaining 18 years, it means an opportunity to vote, for example this year in England, to fulfill 18 years, it means legal permission to use alcohol.
The aim of this article is not to talk about my birthday thing, the truth that my birthday is found in the holiday of celebrating the Tanganyika freedom to look for him for another new constitution about our country.
During the birthday of me, it is my private issue, the Tanganyika freedom day is an issue that you love each one of us.
Although you don't listen to the birthday of Tanganyika's birthday, the painful truth is that I am forced to ask for my country's coming out, where it is heading, and it was heading to where it comes back, and when it comes back to my birthday.
As I have attained several years since I was born, yesterday Lake Tanganyika has attained 50 years since they get Uhuru.
We have heard a place, some of the players are seen to have reached the desire to desire the colonialist.
I will be with bad luck if I will talk a bad luck and that is following what is following what is following the country but for you to look for themselves in the important days if the situation is aiming to look for areas that do not be the consummation of problems instead of success.
Likewise, that day is to test the speed of success and fail, and the same way, if you missed the side of failing, then it is a must for permission to be done since that situation can indicate that more problems in front.
Among the reasons for claiming that Uhuru from the colonialist is to inspect them themselves, hand in line with the criminal system that would enable us to participate in order for the visitors in our country themselves.
Several years after Uhuru, efforts that were led by the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, showed fruits of freedom and not only we managed to build a great extent in building a community with equality but also to be independent.
The problems it started in Usa River, after a teacher entered power and finally, her country was there in the hands of Nyerere, and it was waiting for him to return to his place and maybe more than it was before Uhuru.
