
Kaganda, we met us so as Magufuli refuses us.
Dar es Salaam City, the commissioner of the Public Service Commission in the country, retired Judge Salome Mwaipopo, has said the action taken by President John Magufuli of improving public service is helping the country in line.
Judge Munuo said that the day before yesterday there were cries by the cries by the citizens from churches, the mosques and up to the hospital about the violation of ethics and lack of integrity, a situation that caused the difficulty of life to many.
"The truth is that we have changed, we were following that I am pleased with we become good or bad, we need good steps to be taken so that we can go back to line," he said while speaking about the action taken against the directors of government who were suspended from different accusations.
"There are several complaints that I have been able to hear in the media that there is a continuation of injustice to the media, but there are some who depend on that step is one of the situation, my office has any complaints from the servants who were taken to that step," he said.
While explaining about, he gave an example of the journey outside the country that were being done while others having the interests of the nation more than to give it more cost of financial expenditure.
Judge Mutungi has been informed by the public leaders in the fifth term government after hating ministers that had been late to take forms for debts and resources and the oath of Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa for four months ago.
"I thank all leaders who were given bonds to consider the words of them and the promise of integrity and downloading easily, there is a day that club will grow and eliminate pain," he said.
He emphasized that it is a must who were given priority by the leadership not to change because with integrity is not only to the president but for citizens who are supposed to serve them, it is clear that leaders who see what is happening to their colleagues are required to change.
"The situation is at the moment we are looking at, but the changes were so much, even when a girl when he started doing several times and getting pain but he continues to learn even walking," he said.
