
The speaker and brother to kill me.
October 13, 2016.

Tehran, Iran.

The speaker of the Parliament of Iran, Ali Mufuruki has said it has put an appeal against the minister of economy of Germany, the governor, Gabriel Pitso, to an extent of removing the tour of that leader in that parliament.

The anger of the speaker who deals with the statement made by the minister on a few days before his tour in Tehran City, Iran said that in his statement, the Prime Minister Gabriel warned that the leadership of Iran should not be accountable in Syria.

The speaker of the Parliament of Iran, Ali large.

A large man, who is the eyes of the majority is reported to be a conservative, who is among the top level officials who were in meeting with the minister in his two-day visit aimed at strengthening the business relationship between Iran and Germany.

That minister said that Iran has been helping the economy and military in Syria under the President of Al-Assad and therefore, it is supposed to ensure it helps its efforts to stop the war.

I think Iran does not know about his responsibility in Syria, "said the minister, a statement that it is proud to be the arbitrator.

If you leave that conflict you had been impressed by the brother of the speaker who is called me or a large extent, who is also a general leader of the court in Iran.

"By true, if I were in the government and especially I were the minister of foreign affairs, I would have banned all the minister in Iran," said Anjeche.

In his statement that attracted a controversy, the minister Gabriel was quoted by Hans Van Der Pluijm, that the relationship between Iran and his country have been forced to recognize the existence of Israel among the nations as it is in Iran.

The minister of economy of Germany, the governor.

The Spokesperson of the government of Iran, Mohammed published the Quran, on Tuesday last week, he was quoted saying "there is no country with authority to measure and do what we believe in and what is one and the foundations of our nation.

But on his part, the minister Gabriel was on a way on the plane to return to Germany he told the journalists that his tour has been accepted because of the political games in Iran.

"It is because of the political issues of Iran, it is part of the political campaign," he said on his way to the general elections of Iran that is expected to be held next year.

He added that "I have been happy and have been received and doing talks with the vice president when they are complaining."

In his tour that was released, that minister was accompanied by a group of business people from Germany.
