How will you go down.

It has been written by Angela Semwenda, Dodoma.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The bill of the law to control the registration of diabetes has been passed by parliament as the Deputy Minister of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Angelina Mabula saying that it will be a surprise for the poor people, who will fall down.

"There were many young people who go into the weather and you will go down, many financial institutions have been treated with ghost students, the government has been having a loss, but it was not having the law and the instrument to register well and this is still the board to register and this law will meet these people," he said.
Mabula said that now they will be controlled by their board which will be the agency for those who follow their performance in accordance with the law including the existence of buildings, land experts and property.
On his part, the Minister of that ministry, William Lukuvi answering to issues and explanations of the qualifications, he said that there will be an example, but one district can have three people, every district will have a person who will be given a chance to be the attorney general, therefore he will be called to be the appointed assistant.
Lukuvi explained that more that the assistant registrars is supposed to be the ability to approve different assessment documents, in the district that he is given a cap that has contributed a cap and added on land there are land officers, but even if they are five in the district, there is a nominated member of parliament.
He said that is the ones who will destroy the evaluation before going to the attorney general even if there are many people and added that there is only one person, therefore, it is not allowed to confirm or to approve any evaluation of the whole country.
"The bill that we live in today (the day before yesterday), we want to reduce the burden to the citizens and the difficulty, the students are getting into an evaluation, because the giving of 100,000 acres of 100 or 200 books have come from the room for one person and take a long time," he explained.
Lukuvi said from that environment, that is why they are insisting that they comply with the attorney general because the ones that will go down in the northern region (Moshi), Tabora and Mwanza provinces, there were no evaluation that had already been taken to Dar es Salaam.
"Mkeya said these people in this regional law will end in the concerned region instead of going to the concerned region instead of going to Dodoma region, we would like to inform you all the certificates they are given to Dodoma region and we will not end in the region.
Lukuvi said that the evaluator should not be remembered because they will be important people who will work with members of parliament and added that they have done research by the attorney general they had many years in the country, there are no people with low-income, therefore forcing us to have a second degree in the country.
