
Those who missed the projects in Zanzibar.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Zanzibar.

It has been published today, 26th October, 2016.

The Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar has been urged not to be satisfied with the executives of the institutions that destroy the or lack of development projects in an increase of heart.

This was said by the delegates of the council of representatives, when they gave the opinions about the big investment project in the tourism sector in Matemwe County that is being implemented by the Penalty in Midwives.
The representative of Chumbuni Constituency, Hassan Khamis Mkotya, said it is a shame to see the government has opened up the doors for investors to invest, but still there are various obstacles that are the source of making investors equivalent to the existence of bribery.
The coordinator of that project, Saleh Mohammed Said said they were involved with various restrictions in the implementation of that project including a series of taxes and claims from the citizens that are not primary and legal.
He said they have been unable to get permits for foreign workers, an act that has brought back the development of construction of that project to start fully.
"We will not be satisfied by the implementation of the construction project of Berlin village, because of the huge bureaucracy, including surgery on taxes, as a result of the loan they have been a permit for our foreign workers to work in Zanzibar," he said.
Furthermore, he said they have claimed various compensation from the villagers of that area, which shows openly that citizens have not satisfied the importance of the project to life and interests of the residents of the village including producing employment.
The managing director of that project, Brian Thomas Ulimwengu said that they are required to build a modern tourism village which will have all services including the airport, which will make tourists to arrive there directly and in addition, he said that the project intends to provide employment to the citizens of Zanzibar, while talking to approximately 1,500 people.
"This project aims to increase the income to the government in the tourism sector together with providing employment to the citizens of Zanzibar," he said.
The speaker of representatives of representatives, Zubeir Ali Maulid said, the tourism sector is the biggest of the nation in collecting foreign funds and to produce employment to the youth because the government and its institutions are required to build a good environment that will attract investors to invest.
