It is not aware that we cannot sell words at all the state of the nation?
And I will explain keenly.
How can we be?
There is no longer at this time and this was the government in the previous day, you go back to different nations in the provinces, unfortunately, I have lived for little, when you see you, when you see you.
The problem of the government does not have money to pay the Indian Ocean so that I am able to distribute medicine to the government is doing every first issue and the second one, the second issue that brought down some of the donations that it gives to the development projects because of Tegeta Escrow account.
So, Marina Atick, together with any news reporter to the newspaper, he will be a television station so that I will get a high table in the media but he will have the end.
It is a situation that is ongoing now in Dodoma every day and but it is not good, it is not a good citizen, we are reducing ten percent and five percent for our nation's interests and to our country's interests.
You have been commanded?
Those people have not died.
It's not candidates not for the ministers not and I were shocked and there is no stability.
There is asking yourself where.
If there is no problem what we want to do we go hand even if it was not like the journalists we get an answer that it is a thing that needs to put priority in improving the news since it was discovered.
To get the right answer, the nation comes back to the ordinary way we continue enjoying in and doing our activities in peace and calmness and remove malaria and to remove the concept that there are people who have affected people.
People were abducted in this difficult time so that you can get these answers, but they have been priority to the media so that citizens should know the truth.
You have a great shape.
Small business people are saying they had already met.
Said the writer is saying that five reasons?
Most of them are.
I believe that together with the journalists to be able to write this situation which was prepared to talk while there is an issue of the amount of money that was used there is an issue of law to provide financial use but there is an issue of challenges that arose from lack of money but they want them.
