
It is a dream to reach the economy of the industry without increasing the budget for the 2016 / 17 budget.
Elias Msuya, The Citizen of not like @ mkito.
Since he came to power, President John Magufuli announced and he has been emphasizing in making Tanzania a industry of industries and even so, there have been challenges facing the industries sector in the country, while the budget for the ministry of industry, trade, and investment of parliament did not meet the requirements of the dream.
In this year financial year, the ministry has been handed over to 890,536 billion shillings equivalent to 1000 percent of the main budget (29 trillion shillings).
Recently, our writer has done an interview with the executive director of the Institute of Industry and Industry (SELF), Professor Mkupete Mkamba who is together with explaining the responsibilities of that organization, he has clarified that the reasons for it has dropped by industries in the country touching the small budget that got the research institutions.
When a question is known as Nyota Ndogo, he explain the development of industries in the country?
The answer, basically we are going ahead, but you want it to have another country's journey is similar to having a journey to go to Morogoro from Dar es Salaam, then has reached Manzese, but your colleagues have been exploited but still in Dar es Salaam.
It's true we're going to move ahead, but the speed is not open compared to the countries that were done, equivalent to South Korea, Malaysia and others in Asia.
I would say there is evidence that happened in East African countries to continue, because it is not a mental checkup.
In East Africa, Kenya was silent because already had many industries since the colonial era, we did not have many industries when we got independence.
After getting the freedom, we had the policy of industries that is controlling the importation of products from 1961-1967.
But the industries that were registered were unable to produce and meet the market needs.
By 1967 in 1967 in the city of Arusha, the government invented the industries for the purpose of running it.
But it was not drugs, as it was required to be a burden to the government and people did not have pain if they are those with their industries and that's when the government started a grant of free education.
There was also problems of administration and foreign policies, but also there was also changes in modern technology and times a situation that makes our industries to be called and sometimes it can also be afraid.
For example, nations that are continuing to make sure that our industries continue to continue, then get reliable technology and will make sure our industries have a lot of industries.
Together with the government to start the campaigns of the year 2010, but they were unable to deal with the speed of change, that is why many industries which were died.
A question from the year 1990, the government managed to come up with privatization policies in the country and many industries are thrown out, why is it expected to continue as it was expected?
The answer is why we continue with up until now and its aim is to give investment so as to increase employment, to get tax and increase production.
But there was a competition that continues with problems in the industry sector, there are some investors of the developed countries to attract various industries to take deliberate efforts so that their countries can continue to get market for their products.
For example the Tanganyika industry has been found it intends to pay meat and sell chicken, cans which were in the Arab Emirates, but it started the problem so that the clothes and clothes have died as the same.
You will make sure that a patient gets a factory and he has ordered products from the country and he wants goods from his country and then he gets a machine for only one point but all the products that are being removed from the foreign industries.
At the end, the industries have changed the warehouses of the outside products.
Question is a question at that time, there was no industry officers to follow up to investors?
The answer should be there, but it is clear that there were bribery environment, corruption has changed our industries, that is why the current president (John Magufuli) is fighting, we are supposed to help so much.
Issues of policies are needed more by the ministry, but at the moment they have agreed with the pass, maintain the farm which will be outside business people even if they sell their products that will be high standard more that are produced inside.
When the question is, we have said that there is the country we have the same and now it has shown what's the secret of their success?
The answer of our fellow countries have invested in the development of technology and creativity in order to continue, it must have development of science and technology, because there is a few years old, that is even a small child giving her mobile phones, "said technology has changed at a very short time.
And agriculture research is given priority in the budget, if you check the budget for research institutions in South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia and Kenya and Kenya is big compared to our budget.
The budget for research institutions for industries like Cheupe bus station and that is under 1 / 10 / 10 of those countries is expected to do?
When a question is now if the research institutions are not expected to be enough budget, why do not be patient or be reduced because we are no budget for research?
The answer, say that manslaughter is easy than to create these institutions that were made with great cost and when you start a long process, there are only experts here, there are experts here and continue to continue the existence of the government.
When a question is not present at very delicious with a institution, there are research, I have done it which has brought a revolution in industries or have changed the life of IT?
The answer, there are many research, but this is recently, we need the machine to produce plastic bags and return them in industries to make other products.
It is a research that took place in the beginning of the year 2000, and it has brought great success, because the time you pass in the streets, you're not seen to sell those plastic products as well that people are self-employed and make them sell the environment.
After the business people see our machine, they bought these machines that they bought the machines such as outside the country, and now has opened 150 plastic chairs and making different products and others take them and sell issues outside the country at a high price.
We have also done the manufacturing of fake and now used in the provinces. There are some people who have started industries and they sell food in the school, we have also have the project of production of natural farming technology which is still ongoing and also our experts have participated in the inspection of the gas pipeline from Mnazi Mmoja.
We have also managed to produce GS-1 company involved in manufacturing of goods, in Dar es Salaam to check the quality of products.
Other jobs we are doing is to give advice to reduce the use of industries, we have experts of testing and advise the way to reduce electricity use.
At the moment you check up and I advise them to reduce at 4 million shillings, they will also produce employment or has added that industries outside the country will not affect the water catchment areas, but there is also technology that is used to clean water before it has not destroyed water.
Likewise, we have a laboratory to test the quality of international food although it doesn't be complete, but we have a plan to grow so that it can be able to test their own quality, you know that drugs are very dangerous and you cannot sell in the foreign markets.
Milk also can have poison like a cow as they were asked for instance, there are also fish that eat with poison so that our laboratory will reduce all and advise the businessman before taking their products in the market like the fifth government will enable us to end there.
