
Accountant of the dock of insulting the president.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

Accountant of the St Joseph secondary school, Elizabeth Asenga (40) has been put in the dock at Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court facing charges of asking for President John Magufuli on the WhatsApp network.

Elizabeth was presented in court yesterday with him to vote by the government lawyer, Leonard Charo, before the chief resident magistrate, Huruma Shaw.
Lawyer Chimela, claimed that, August 6 this year, while Elizabeth Michael sent a message with a conducive environment for WhatsApp to the social group known as' TJ, Social Group Company, claimed that the message said.
"Goodone in the morning, there is no president just like this one in the world, look at what she gets, and when I read it, my picture, when I read it in the morning, if you meet his first picture, the day should be the last picture."
After the attorney general, they will be able to have charges, to try to do that offense and on the side of the Republic claiming that the investigation of that case is not complete and asked the case to be postponed until other date.
The Catholic church will be released on bail after attaining the conditions of having two sponsors, who are supposed to sign a bond of two million shillings in a case that will resume on September 22, this year.
In another step, the businessman Juma Shaban (31) has been taken to court there, faced with six charges including paying up to US $12,000.
The government lawyer, Dams Debwa, claimed that in the front of the Resident Magistrate's Court, Emerick Aguilera has said that, May 31, 2003, Dar es Salaam, with an intention of depending on the customs documents claiming that the transportation of gold by Igurubi County.
Moreover, he is alleged to buy other documents and documents of the intention, he also refused to provide documents of transporting cargo showing that the plane of Qatar was the transportation and taking those minerals at least.
Juvenal Utafu (left) of April 20 and May 10, 2013 in Dar es Salaam city, with an aim of getting in the Catholic church, they will give out that amount of money from Davutoglu gave those minerals while knowing that it is not true.
It is alleged that the Catholic church will be engaged to the funds, by releasing those funds to be used in the digital account, Stanbic Bank, and later waiting for the money is the produce of contraception and get money through a way of cheating.
The Catholic church will be forced to vote and be returned home because, charges were not given out as a case that will take place on September 15, this year.
