Very much, is required to see that way people should be educated about things like this and another thing, I will continue to finish the Tanzanians.
Truly, I would like to speak that Tanzanians and now we have enabled us to listen.
That is that we complained so much today, we're saying that when he gets a win in sports, it is a must for people to complain until you know why not to get to secondary schools for Tanzanians to be ready and investing in games.
And another thing now, I will talk to the information on investment in sports so that we must be everything if we play football, how our sister goes through their hands is also investment.
Welcome very much there are Jack Omari to the left.
There is a challenge that the exercise of does not invest here is starting from the journey to agree and agree on food, the results want to invest in doing.
It is good to have every opportunity to prepare people with each other, I was in place and its branches are in the villages.
Similarly, the action of not involving themselves against them is doing exercises in order to start there were high quality.
It is not true that you will involve new coaches as coaches were stolen from the theft to compete with the talents so that those children are Mkuzo because it will have the referees.
I would like to assure you and it does not mean?
You have talks.
There is no need to promote, I request all those who are inspiring.
I love you.
Senior directors, in Dar es Salaam city, we're the honorable stakeholders to contribute to the topics where I will be able to invest or stakeholders this game to be done in large numbers here where we can start doing so that we can be done so as to enable them to improve now in the field of this game can remember which we have been completed.
If we have been late in investment, we are supposed to use these opportunities such as well as people who are in order to get changes but now we need us to make sure that he has changed the direction for what to do if you get Chris Brown.
My thing is that no very much in one minute, everyone seemed to be very close to Mchaga!
Bye, I would like to make sure that.
The whites are saying that you should stop stuttering on what is because of men to think starting from home, they do not know who's only a player, Ras Makunja, who was playing in the era of Coach Mart Nooij, who was found well and also good players who can be able to help them in our team.
It starts this week in order to get a lot of time to see me in her way, I don't know anything else that we don't know how many actors must change.
That is the investors themselves as well as investing but those who do not invest more because you can't understand that they will help this, it will help this will help us to get more than a lot of more than the whole nation should not be done easily.
If we start without people, there's no government and it's not the government and for now, we should prepare what to continue talking about sports about all the things and a result of people who come to invest in phones or different levels in our country including what we want to cooperate with me in our market, I advise them to cooperate with me in my market or not me.
Is it really appropriate?
Before investing in Tanzania?
The government are not accepted by the government.
The leaders get the authority of the country not to invest more than one hundred.
So I agree to invest here, then a position is not only in democracy, we must inform you.
Now on investment matters, should not be dealt with on investment, how it started the government has done?
When you receive this issue of investment, then I want to say that investment should not know where the Clinic station where people don't vote while they have been there in people.
Kigamboni.
Even if there is the sea even at a pose.
This is not a problem.
Therefore, the first government accepted first so that this matter can be five, to end through the first issues of football.
There and Kibadeni claims that she gets a friend.
Remember the police are happy and all of us are under giving ideas and big challenges.
We will come out to make sure we live in coughus, a teaser us has requested something!
