When we look at the census and now we have to come out in the city where the director of the census and community statistics from the National Bureau of Statistics when they decided to pay their allowances due to the problems in social media networks when they decided to pay their allowances due to the problems in social media stations when they decided to pay their allowances because they do not be paid very near.
Now Dina Moris before taking place a historical event in the country of population and housing, the exercise that will take place in every corner of the country.
The challenges that came out is the delay of Professor of the training, some of the departments, an issue that has been issued to work by the director of the census and statistics of the society, Almighty God.
Maybe it is that money that are available are available for a phase.
Those are the ones that don't know how the day they are.
The big problem in the commission revealed.
It is that there is a system of the bank.
The money is not there.
We are going to be a money officer.
He was already taken to the bank that they took it to the provinces while it is taking them to the main district.
There are social networks before the banks do not work well, a problem that we should have seen that there is no one who will be found even.
Can be taken to remove those challenges but they will get their rights and the money only have increased by making sure that every person will take his contract and how he is signing up his contract because they are ready to tell all the citizens that the census will be done for approximately seven days.
And the departments that protect the Stock Port will be in that place for a period of time.
More than that.
If we will not have a lot of joy and everything on that day.
Or a person is a woman who will go to his church if there are playing music and it does not have a allidum and he started being seen as the night before the day of the funds they come from his drug in any day and being in collaboration with government officials.
The census for people and housing will take place in the whole country on August twenty and six this year.
On the first of Modewjiblog.
