Their opponents are encouraged to remove the system of "pass without opposition.
Dec 18, 2014.

One of the foolish laws that "& ius Nyange said that we have imported the machines in the commission to agree that it is legal because it makes the candidates for different positions to be able to pass without being independent," this candidate plays having remained on his last day to return the forms and therefore being the winner.

Therefore, in the local government elections that took place on Sunday, there are part of the citizens who have found themselves in leaders who did not be elected by those citizens just because his candidates found themselves alone and therefore they have succeeded without being independent. "

I have said that this is a good law for a sober mind and they want to accept the logic of the presence of this law in countries that are trying to build democracy and democracy when it is now like people did not participate in the law which is true or it's the truth?

It is ignorance because you can be called a leader "to be elected" when there is no one who made the votes to choose what they have benefited from this system because of leaders who have benefited from this system because the leaders who have benefited from this system is the cause of democracy.

CHADEMA has a lot of tests, as if the freedom of opinion, freedom of information, freedom of worship or faith, even so among them, there is a very high level and justice is the best way for the growth of democracy in any place.

The system of pass without political parties should be called "without being elected" because there is no reason why people who do not have political parties because if that position did not be said, there should be no reason why they do not have the party just because there is no longer a party.

That is why I see this system, "the concept of the concept and even during this party's system was required to bring two candidates to the citizens and even if the citizens are given a chance to vote between those two people and even if the citizens are given a chance to choose the group of candidates of the party.

Surprising thing is now in what is called "the system of many parties" one of us have been unable to at least make an environment that will give citizens a certain kind, today there are hundreds of leaders in the local government who will enter the leadership and also for the disabled people when they have won. "
