The referee who was shot too.

It has been written by Raqqa, Pallidum.

I was heard (22 October, 2016

Despite getting a beating from Coastal Union fans at the end of last week, referee Thomas Kashililah has blamed her to be responsible, and can't leave his profession to lead soccer, the incident.

Yanga has been scored by fans alleged to be Coastal Union after receiving a penalty by Kvitova when those teams met at the First Division League match at the Mkwakwani Tanga Stadium that ended with visitors emerging victorious with 3-2 goals.
Speaking on phone yesterday, has handed over he saw like jokes during the event coming from suddenly, the situation changed at the field and fans continued to fly him from the stage when he decided to defend his home.
"It was very dangerous and has opened a case of the attack in Tanga Police Station, although I've returned to Moshi but I cannot get enough experience but I did not have enough experience but I don't get married," said she has handed over me.
He has also handed over, he has handed him to see fans and leaders who don't want to accept the results of their match but he believes that the rights will be done since he has brought a report on the right part of the police force and the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF).
Those riots have caused the referee being affected by being taken to the hospital where he left the fourth, a period in the near future as a result of stones that he was passing by fans.
And the chairperson of the student's committee, Salum Mwalimu gave the statement of condemning that act of those fans to attack the referee and said that from now they will be involved in the Coastal Union matches until when they celebrate otherwise.
The Coastal Union which played a bridge last season has had a bad record of beating the referees which last season denied the referee Simon Charles in the Confederation Cup match against Yanga and the 72-hour committee that is supposed to give judgment within those hours until now there is no any report from that committee since the incident happened.
