
The ministry has launched them to deal with AIDS.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

I was published (03 / 2016.

Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children has launched the new male circumcision program of equipment and distributing them at the health centers, health centers, district hospitals and referral hospitals so that they can be released without payments so as to control the new infection of AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases.

The senior health officer of Morogoro province, Doctor Frank Jacob, said that in the speech that was read by the acting medical officer of that province, Doctor Samson Tarimo, at the time of the launch of the foundation of equipment, on the side of Coast Province and Morogoro.
Doctor Jacob said since the establishment of the AIDS country in the country, 1983 in the government through the Ministry of Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children in collaboration with other stakeholders, has been taking deliberate efforts to prevent HIV and AIDS virus (HIV).
The ministry has also been giving medical services and care for the living with HIV infection, and in that step by partnering with other stakeholders, it has been increasing to a big amount of male circumcision.
Doctor Jacob said the research on the HIV infection of Malaria in the year 2011 / 2012 / 09 / 2018, seem not to be clear that despite 30 percent of women and boys among men among them, they know the use of people.
However, he said 27 percent of those people with more than one of them used them to vote for the last time they recover.
Doctor Jacob, said after doing research and meditation about the poor use of people that are among them, the ministry revealed that lack of identity cards that are given without payments and the government has contributed to some people that use them.
Therefore, the ministry in partnership with other stakeholders has improved its services that are given without payments and the government will give an opportunity to attract users and increase the speed of controlling the new HIV infection among AIDS.
The information and communication officer of controlling the AIDS from the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children, Shishiyu Ward, said that they have already received 21 million dollars going round in the country through the main pharmaceutical warehouse (MSD).
