The challenge and profit is the new general elections.
Kristen 31, 2016 by Evarist Ndikilo.

Last week, President Doctor John Magufuli appointed Doctor Modestus Kipilimba to be the executive director (DGIS) of the National Security Department (NIDA). The appointment took place after retiring from the executive director of CCM, Othman Rashid.

On my part, if there is something that would be able to remove questions about that appointment, then it is the position of the disaster director (low level Management) that hold Doctor Shein as a servant in the Central Bank of Tanzania.

Identifying the Central Bank has been accompanied by several cases of corruption, starting EPA to Tegeta Escrow account.

The biggest challenge to Doctor Kipilimba is together to restore the status and honor of the department of safety of the nation, urging the institutions not to show that its workers are responsible for some of the criminal acts and failing to deal with the protection of the nation of Tanzania.

I believe that Doctor Kipilimba will be an important regulations about the success or a shortage of the National Security Department anywhere in the world, that there is a shortage of shortages in any nation's security department to be controlled for actions that involve the security of the national security department of the country.

Therefore, by considering that regulations, the growth of drug trafficking, robbery, bribery and other corruption are some of the problems of our department of safety of the nation.

Another challenge to Doctor Kipilimba is the allegations of time to time against the important institution to be in the executive committee of the ruling party (CCM), that department has been accused of having a great extent that it has set aside the business profession and not to meet the political responsibilities.

The effects of a short time of those problems is the institution to build hostility and the opposition parties and in one way to lose their honor and the legality of our nation can use "friendship," stated that the department does not have time and the cadres of the ruling party and eventually fail to fulfill their bad intention.

Some of the former workers of that institution found themselves in trouble, because it did not implement their responsibilities against the politicians of the ruling party and they continued to be seen as a liver.

Another challenge to Doctor Kipilimba is the accusations that are facing the institution about employment system where it is claimed that they have been being offered by bias against brothers and relatives of leaders who are in the country but to the fellow musicians who registered themselves in the country but by our colleagues, CIA, NSA information, 5 years or HGQ who are announcing the employment opportunities in the media.

There is also a problem of some of the national security officers "to recognize him, because they are saying that they are doing their reputation, or the ones who are not involved in the market because it is difficult to implement their responsibilities as required.

In addition to that, it is a long period of time where some of the officers of that department are in different sections of the presence of a long time so as to affect their performance.

Other big challenge is the presence of gospel musicians in our country, especially from one country, while many of the miners have been employed in the public and private institutions, this is a big threat to the security of our nation, despite that, "our thing we have in the coming days.

On the side of opportunities to Doctor Kipilimba, despite being the host, "in the important institution, her professional biography is putting him in a good position to deal with the challenges of the 21 century which has been dominated by modern technology.
