We should support the premier league of women.

It has been written by.

It has been published on 29th October, 2016.

On Tuesday of November first, Tanzania's soccer club has written another history, by starting the competition of the Tanzania Women's Premier League.

This is the second time to take place in the women's tournament after last year that will involve all teams of Tanzania mainland.
Since starting, that league will involve 12 provinces of 12 provinces and will be officially launched in Dodoma town, it is an issue to be commended for the efforts of the soccer managers in the country, because the women's league has been a lot of years for many years.
The benefits of that league can't read it quickly, but its establishment, there will be an opportunity for parents to believe their children go, after playing in the district league or their provinces, which took place all days, which the end was not known.
Now, the players will play the district league and after there, they will play the provinces of the provinces, or the nation, this is something to be proud because we have every reason to support these efforts, especially considering that women's soccer has been giving out anyway.
The women national team has participated in the United Nations Cup, and the Pan African Games competitions, but also recently, our team of Tanzania Mainland, Kilimanjaro Queens will have won the championship of the East and Central African Cup.
Therefore, for the start of that league, we have faith that the national team coaches will sign up players that will make the teams of talents.
Azam Media has collected rights of the advertisements in that league, but we see there is an importance for another company to come out to sponsor this league so as to provide more competition and put relief to TFF at the cost of running that league.
We have faith that the referees will conduct their rights and get legal action and even if a player is elected in the national team, then it should be true he has a great ability to the field.
All the first day are usually difficult, but this one of starting the national women's league, is supposed to be supported and it has been added, because it will help to get national teams of women with a level after coaches have a broad range of players from different provinces.
Previously, the women national team was formed by depending on the players of the Dar es Salaam national team, thus the other talents were not yet known here in the provinces, but having this league there will enable them to be happy when we won each other with the committee that deals with that league by partnering with TFF.
