
Water is a human resources that does not benefit.
It is a must to change you and to see water from rains such as resources which are already lost.
Last week I wrote on a little amount about correct use of water including rains that have been going on in many areas of our country due to the heavy rains.
Like my two days, I start by giving my condolences to my colleagues, especially those who have been faced with great disaster due to the heavy rains that are ongoing in large numbers in many areas of our country.
I remember my brothers, the residents of Moshi, Rombo, Kilimanjaro, and Kilosa, Morogoro, and all other areas in the country where its residents have reduced up for those rains.
Last week, I was talking about how some of the residents of Ihanga village, Karagwe district of Kagera province, that we were helped with the donation of visitors from Sokomatola area, they used them to teach them, care for their permanent cry for lack of water or clean water use.
I saw recently, the residents of Ileje district, Mbeya benefited with the lack of clean and safe water, when he explained that a pipeline that was admitted for many years to their village, it doesn't give water for many years.
Therefore, I think about us, especially because we recognizes how the rains have shown to a large extent in Mbeya for two months, when I got up for time, citizens have come back for many years, they do not have water and drinking water.
It is not the residents of Ileje district but it is in many areas of Tanzania, after a long period of rain, you will hear them say that they get water, an issue that makes you ask the Minister of Water and Irrigation, Engineer Gerson Lwenge, to make the right plan of getting water from rain water.
I don't have doubt, there is plans of the way in the ministry, it is possible that there is need to change, in the water department or water authorities in our towns.
It's bad luck, Tanzania that has been born to have rivers, milk and fish, its people have a cry for water from the south and north, east to west, the journey continues to the Unguja and Pemba islands.
I ask you, our country that has been born with two seasons or even one of the rains in the year, why do his people have a thirst for water, instead of preventing themselves and used them in the needs?
That is the question that is telling my head to see them all corners of this country with a total of 3,90,071 kilometers that are used for lack of water, I was surprised, getting a spirit in getting to them.
Even in the areas of farmers, some of them have been attending to their livestock to look for food and water, it is possible that they would have been prepared, so as to be used, so as a solution to the fights or big conflicts between farmers and pastoralists or the human being contributing to water and animals.
There are a problem of water, which every woman can be able to keep him or even to prevent water which will be paid for a long time or a short period of year, it costs that amount of money so as to improve it?
This is a easy question that I believe engineers should be faced with it in the efforts and their activities to avoid water problem in various communities, including human beings, animals.
I believe that leaders in that ministry and their aides have a great opportunity to do what will be respected in the community and at the time the country can make progress in development.
By using rivers, milk and accidents that have been planted every year in our country, if we prepared a plan to reach any way from the water, we have no need to live and continue to have a lot of resources that has a great importance to each one of us.
I don't see the reason or the logic or paths of cities, and rural areas to continue with the thirst for water while others especially women and female children were rigged.
It is a must to understand themselves with other countries that have a long-term problem for a year, where the heavy rains are seen as Baraka, or not a curse.
By doing so, we are proud of water and used them in the needs, I believe we can reduce the bad effects as those of the floods which for many years have been affected every year and causing disaster, wealth, property.
