
Wayne Rooney to fall on this two.
October 13, 2016 by Abdul Mkonga.

Wayne Rooney to sell, Wayne Rooney to close to the field on these days.

Wayne Rooney for three years behind it is silent from the field without scoring or getting a goal, but Wayne Rooney for today is normal, who is being criticized by every fan of the England team, up to those of Manchester United.

If he was surprised by the fans of his country and his club's fans, he said as a captain, he will go to pray for his chapter of happiness which he lived for many years outside, and inside the stadium you will go to his wife who will go back to his wife who will go for two things at this time.

First of first to listen to the level that provides a bad behavior of the United States, the second one will have a look at around one hour and then he will have a huge salary of 260,000 shillings more than 600 million shillings that he will take every end at the end of the week.

You do not get a huge salary to this level and then is in the field you can be able to sell his salary themselves and make the world you should be paid for that salary?

Another one is being put on the bench and the players that will not be paid even a half of his salary are very humiliating, Wayne Rooney for his area at Mourinho, has blamed the technicians of football.

Behind the previous area, a striker has closed down a series of militants, Juan Mata, Paul Pogba, Andaman Sea and all of them are professional players when they play the second striker, while the first position is under the authority of Zlatan Ibrahimovic.

Despite that, Wayne Rooney is a player who causes more effort, different from what is evident, the area needs more creativity, it's not another one to be careful.

That time you have shown his current age of 30 years and he will decide to continue with him while making a big amount of money or he will go to another place which will be dealt with, but he will be a man and will get honor.

The managing editor of the International Maslow Hotel in England, Hanne-Shariff town, has advised Wayne Rooney to leave Manchester United and go to another club while the two things are supposed to sell Wayne Rooney for few minutes without stopping the upcoming players in the field.

To plan is to choose, it is his time to plan before electing him.
