Maalim Seif and bags of Lee on Yuksekdag.
Sei 20, 2015.

I don't know if these are getting in other parts of Tanzania but here in Zanzibar, these two days is common to see the big number of soldiers who were in their draw and carrying the heavy weapons they have had in the heavy rains.
At night, it appears to also groups of soldiers while getting in some of the estates.
Although the citizens have used to be used this situation and they are saying that it did not live and do not go back again, it is our responsibility to remind of that this situation does not participate especially during this period of the general elections.
Election that is free is a must that you have been seen that, it is supposed to be done through the way of giving birth to voters, full of them could not be faced with any kind of dollars or give fear or have been able to continue benefiting.
During the election, the work of state agencies to deal with security issues and security is supposed to be only one of protecting the peace and to confirm to the citizens of their security.
The step of switching off the army and making them be seen every time it is a step that sparked controversy, even if it is not determined to cause the army officers in the estates.
As it is outside Tanzania ,-finals of Zanzibar between the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa), union of opposition parties, the Revolutionary Party (CUF) launched its campaigns on September 9, at the Democratic Field of Kibanda Maiti in Unguja and CCM launched its campaign on September 13th at the same stadium.
By bad luck, I see this article that CCM was not ready and I don't have sure that there is a new song that will be announced more than that that is in the CCM party manifesto, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, who is vying for the first time of the presidential candidate of Zanzibar, promised many people of Zanzibar.
But the foundation has said that he will implement if he is elected as the president of Zanzibar, this is this.
To ensure that Zanzibar gets its full authority in the new system of the union.
To build a stable economy, it will change Zanzibar to be "the Singapore of East Africa" among the first steps, he has promised to open the new port of Zanzibar that will help the youths to be able to protect themselves and be self-employed.
Maalim Seif has also promised that during the first 100 days, after holding the rule of administration, he will ensure that he has already been awarded the law of oil and gas so as to destroy the islands of Zanzibar.
Many who think it is true that Zanzibar can have economic development system in order to improve the economy of Singapore when the economy of Singapore was the economy of the kind that is getting to Singapore the service sector together with products produced in industries and that are being transported outside the country.
Another thing that is important for expansion and eventually the success of the two sector is to have policies that enables the government to intervene in economic development instead of releasing everything on the economy and the ability to intervene in economic activities and the ability to intervene in economic activities and the ability to intervene.
Singapore has shown that together with the market and plans of the economy, it has been able to do other things to discuss the economy of that nation, which is why I think it is a stable leadership where Singapore has been able to make great steps for development because it had a big leader to enable the nation to be able to continue.
Therefore I think that I think that Maalim Seif does not see me and that is how she has found his followers, she has self-driven and Lee on Yaredi, who is recognized as the father of Singapore city today, when he was appointed as the father of the Singapore city today, when he was appointed as the former prime minister for the first time, making it to be modern.
