On the second side, listen to her husband?
APR the year 2015.

Later Peter Malebo and sworn in the country to live in America in 1993, where he wedded in America in the year 1993, where he lost in America to join his brother Peter Chami, together with his wife Jomba Koyi.
Later, he is not worried that he started living in English at the Kiango, which is in Madnat Hotel, Peter Buluku.
After separation and her husband left on the house they were living with Wembley Stadium, and moving to another area, it is claimed that he is proud of giving a present at the clinic where he is not happy to kill the pregnancy as he was given by her brother.
According to the evidence that were collected from that clinic, Mwikabe has said that the special form of giving pregnancy as well as they get into a sharp object in the United States as well as they have lost another milestone in the driving license, that was given out in Jiansu province.
The investigation reports from the laboratory to investigate the toes of the toes of the toes of the toes that was found into the clinic's forms that was found abandoned by the remains of the body that was found guilty, it was found to confirmed that he is not true.
After the police carried out all evidence that was found being together with questioned Peter Kibatala, those police started shouting at a special plane that had been known by musician or musician, Sandry onions, were able to discover the remains of blood that had been known by musician or musician, Prosper Alute.
Police also found things that were thrown and confirmed that they were unsatisfied and the qualifications of those things were the Bible, breast cancer and clothes, being together with 150 plastic bags, which contributes to the remains of the body.
As a result of evidence that is found, Peter Chami admitted that he was accused of killing her sister's sister, Mwaruka, who was appointed by the lawyer who was mentioned by the name Nimlaumu Nani.
In the court there was also good parents who travelled from Tanzania so as to listen to that case after being forced to vote for him, she does not love her sister, she does not kill him, I did not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him, I could not kill him
The truth is that the case broke out the feelings of many people who live in the city of Madoido, where the court had already affected us every day before it was heard by the audience.
The case which was run by depending on the first evidence has continued to be heard on the side of charges to bring its witnesses while giving his evidence in court, the former wife to Peter Buluku.
But his fellow workers were interviewed they said that I have never been employed but he was a must to do a special work (Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency, Job Ndugai, that was in order to symbolize claims of giving out 1,500 bags from America, as the fare is to return to Tanzania.
