
By borrowing, things will help strengthen the government of Tanzania.
Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein campaigning for the president of Zanzibar for the second phase at the Amaan Stadium in Unguja town.
It's 52 years of unity, it's not dangerous even so, but I can say it is same as a depressed state, we have lived in the marriage, we got the children and now we have written, but we look for fruits that we are not living.
So, let us continue to remain with what I'm in our country while the age comes up and let me see the children, that I quote it and did not mention our leaders?
It is a difficult issue to fall in marriage with joy and who live in mind, one happens when another world will go back because of having a conflict in every day, they can't jump and one person leaving each other to leave each other.
That is an example of economic growth having many people and in general we need to live in that system.
The union we have, we thank you about every day but we cannot be happy because of mind.
The most important issue so that the union continues to continue and take advantage of the problems and the complaints are of discussing, to mention them and managed to end.
Your discussion and open debate is that which will be a solution to let us try to destroy the union by putting up on a political party, each one of us can put aside the interest of politics and to look for the interests of our union.
Every time we tries to understand the problem of the union we will not understand what we will end, we are supposed to be done by our political interests.
At the time Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Sheikh Abeid Karume when they agreed to join their huge interests, the security and security of Sheikh Karume wanted to protect themselves so that he didn't be supported by the communist party of Zanzibar where many of them got their education in Cuba from the people of Celine Itatiro.
It is not right to be very important at their time, now it has changed and we are trying and we are discussing the kind of the union that we want.
In the same level of a human being I don't see if you want to break a union, but it is clear that everyone would like to see that we have a better union that will meet political and economic interests in this time.
The important thing for the current plan is to agree that they want a union of how to recognize that the debate is supposed to be free should not be careful.
We are supposed to inform you the opportunity to speak and build the revolutionary union. Every year we have improved, we see that there is a certain steps we have made in addressing the problems of the union.
At the time of the special constitutional parliament (SCA) we thought our representatives will not affect the issue of our union and to forward it is a good place, unfortunately, we have witnessed people with conflicts where many do not have productivity and serve us from albinism.
For my view, we are still not enough to the issue of the union, there is still a matter of the union, it is possible for us to complete the domain name or it is because of protecting the interests of the few who benefit from the existing system.
For a long time, the issue of short union is the one that will bring the right time without being arraigned.
There are some who want the presence of one government of one government, there are some of the two governments and there are some of the three governments.
We should have been in a union of two governments for more than a half of the century, and they believe it is good that has been done by the challenges of the structure of the union.
The former attorney general of Zanzibar, Othman Masoud Othman, says that the issue is not a union of two governments or three, but the issue is a system of the union.
"The foundation of United Republic of Tanzania is to join with two free countries, Tanganyika and Zanzibar with the aim of joining the two countries to do their issues together with getting more benefits and not one country to stop any other country."
Speaking during the process of availability of a new constitution, Othman said.
In the union, we agree with some of the issues together with not Zanzibar as Tanganyika region, "the lawyer explains the example of the United Republic of Tanzania, but it has been noted that the second phase of the constitution of the union of constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba said half of the fifth term government wanted the presence of three governments.
"On the side of 61 percent (61) of those who gave the opinion about the union, they wanted the three governments, on the side of Zanzibar 60 percent of the agreement.
That's the direction of today's direction, most of you know the importance of the union but many want to change in the union system.
For those who urge them to launch those requirements for the citizens and to protect the union like a political party that is the right that you want our union to have any problems that are not ready.
The requirements of contraception is supposed to be given more priority than political interests.
The writer is the editor of special projects of the Citizen Company, is available on an issue of running a farm, annamatinde @ mkito.
