
Minister Nape will break Kili Challenge?

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

The Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye has given a promise of one million shillings to each goal that they won the players of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League that will play with the women's members in November this year.

Nape said that in the evening a day by the players of that team they arrived from Uganda when they won the World Cup Finals which took place on women.
"I have given a promise to your fans of Serengeti Boys (17 years' team) that attaining 1 million shillings, today (the day before yesterday), I promise here that I will see Dodoma (parliament) and you play a match with women's members, every goal will give him 20 million shillings, now if you will give them 20 million shillings," he said.
Speaking about the championship which Kili Challenge has made the fight for the first time, Nape said it is a record that is being stolen.
"You know this competition has been done for the first time with a fashion model (Kilimanjaro Queens), you have been the first champions this is a record that is being violated, because there will be no first champions," he said.
He said Kilimanjaro Queens has brought the honor of his government and that he is promising to also seek sponsors.
"I am happy to look for the sponsors of this team, I have done well and promised you to get a sponsor," he said.
Then I would like to thank you, if there is a businessman who wants to hear of an eye on the tax then to produce this team. "
In addition, Nape said that the team has thrown out sports stakeholders until President John Magufuli has sent messages of congratulations for the first time in sports.
"I am happy with my friend, there is a time I told Mister Samatta (Mbwana who plays professional soccer in Belgium) has done well then we are getting a small office at the State House, he said that for now, this season can I see it more," he said.
Kilimanjaro Marathon won the championship by scoring 2-1 in the tournament sponsored by the Council of East and Central Africa (CECAFA), which has taken place for the first time.
