
Simon Group who complained about the believers of the TIB.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been reported, 20 October, 2016.

The Simon Group Limited company has said that it has benefited from the development of the Development Bank (TIB) was announced to be put under the loan from the loan of a factory that decided to buy fuel from New Zealand and Cotton Saiwa in Mwanza city when there was a discussion of paying a loan of 298 billion shillings.

In addition, it has said that it is not correct to follow the step by its business, including the Dar es Salaam Port Authority (UDA), that every company is being run in accordance with the law and it is claimed that every company is run in accordance with the law and it is claimed, property are usually arrested among those affected by the concerned company.
The Executive Director of Simon Group Limited, Robert Kisena said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam that there was a discussion of paying the loan that they were to take place a good place in May this year and that all times, the company has already started paying that loan and it was surprised by the TIB Corporate Bank as a way to save the company.
"We have never seen and we have no plan to refuse to pay this debt, the company has been in talks with TIB for paying that debt," said Kisena and added that we have no need to pay the debt, "said Kisena and added that we have no need to pay the debt," said Kisena and added that we have no need to pay the debt, "said Kisena and added that we have no need to pay the debt," said Kisena and added that we have no need to pay the debt, "said Kisena and added that there is no need to pay the debt," said Kisena and added that we have no need to pay the debt, "said Kisena and added that there is no need to pay the debt," said Kisena and added that we have no need to pay the debt, "said Kisena and added that there is no need to pay the debt," said Kisena and added that we have no need to pay the debt, "said Kisena and added that there is no need to pay the debt," said Kisena and added that we have no need to pay the debt, "said Kisena and added that there is no need to pay the debt," said Kisena and added that we have no need to pay the debt, "said Kisena and added that there is no need to pay the debt," said Kisena and added that we have no need to pay the debt, "said Kisena and added that
While clarifying about the debt, Kisena said that the explosion was resulting from the TIB Corporate Bank the year 2008 due to the purchase of the factory that was their property of Nyanza.
He said in that loan they donated 300 million shillings and TIB 3 billion shillings.
He said even so, the year 2008, there was a probability of the economy that caused the drop in business due to the price being below and also lack of natural resources due to Nthepheya.
The day before yesterday in the media, the commission said that starting on October 11, this year the TIB has appointed the lawyers, Ayoub Matili the supervisors of Simon Group Limited from the loan of the year 2008.
