
I was surprised by Wama, APR, 2016.

Still we are in need for this union?

Several years when I was in primary school, I would like to see what I was asked in the subject of community knowledge, in his examinations, I have been looking for a question which has a question that I had to look for sure I was looking for sure where I was looking for, but I was not a question that I will look for sure but I was not a question that I will look for me on April 26, other questions like the first president of Tanzania who is called '?
Then I would like to look for Julius Kambarage Nyerere name, who are the leaders who joined Tanganyika and Abeid peace, I would like you to look for Mwalimu Nyerere and Abeid Amani newspaper, I would like to see the questions with the pancreas.
The United Republic of Tanzania is made up by a panel of two countries that are Tanganyika, popular in Tanzania mainland for now and in Zanzibar Islands, it was made up on January 12, 1995, while Tanganyika got its freedom on December 12, 1995, while Tanganyika got its freedom and succeeded to remove the rule of Sultan from Oman.
When a day of commemoration of several years of unity, I am very happy because I am saying I will be happy to see the soldiers when I'm in Tanzania having more than twenty years but as I am born, I don't see it to see you know the real meaning of the union.
Sunnis with a leaders who used their time and power to make sure they toured these two nations to be a big nation, until today, we are attaining 52 years of union or for sure this is not a small issue but we will start saying that there was a nation called Tanzania.
Until now the union has already been under five presidents who at different times have been able to lead the nation when they started with the Mwalimu Julius K. Nyerere, Alhaj Ali Hassan Mwinyi, Benjamin Mkapa, President Jakaya Kikwete and Doctor John Magufuli, but there is also a question that I don't see what I don't see what I would like the question.
So, Zanzibar is a country like this question, I have heard the retired prime minister, being read to parliament after explaining that Zanzibar is not a question that until now, there is no problem what arose from this union but if you see a question that arose from this union but if you see a union we get involved with this union?
Most of the people I have ever heard, speaking about the main reason for the leaders to bring unity, what are many not knowing that the main reason is political issues that Teacher Nyerere explained that the main reason is safe and the following are several reasons for what we are in need.
