Energy and minerals Professor Sospeter Muhongo.
He has said that the government has decided to work on this amendments to two organizations including the development of petrol in the country.
And the electricity organization, TANESCO in order to improve the performance.
For those organizations in that sector, there are livestock.
Professor Sospeter Muhongo has told the stakeholders of energy and minerals in Babati province in Manyara province today that the police will involve three major companies of clean gas and gas companies, TANESCO is recognized as a new structure after another organization started improving the electricity sector here in the country.
Minister of energy and minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo has said that the government is not supposed to do mistakes in the gas sector in the country thus to decide to put a new structure of solar energy in this country.
Therefore, there is a good place this period, Isaya, companies like two.
But then use it so much to you.
You are inspiring this companies.
Currently, Tanzanians sponsors for the right now, means that it has been done, then we want people to set themselves at the cemetery.
Regarding the supply project of electricity in TANESCO, Professor Sospeter Muhongo said the organization has been unable to implement its responsibilities in the fifty years by giving them more than eight percent of Tanzanians more than 100 million Tanzanians.
He has said that its medicine is to reach the great organization and a new structure with more income will continue to reach TANESCO to be the first to be successful.
We don't think about ten years and five are four percent and the only look for the people of our thinking.
Now it will be a dream?
If people in the villages cannot get electricity, the truth that it is small to have.
Therefore, TANESCO is supposed to see TANESCO.
Some of the stakeholders who participated in the meeting which had the aim of discussing the development of the energy sector and minerals has been forced to TANESCO by checking some of the customers including big number of money even if they do not have electricity.
It can have a reduction of price as a solution to prison for the second side.
The time of words of electricity.
There is there a problem.
When you're getting money today through you, I will follow me.
Currently, there is a problem if you can go every time, you are continuing to pay twenty-five percent, I will follow up for last month and the youths following the complaints from citizens together with their investors from Bahati district, Manyara province to resolve it.
