Mwinyi does not mean to have fear of God?

It has been written by Katoma.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

Retired president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi has appealed to people from other nations to have fear of God and to live in the foundation that will enable them to be an example to others, even after leaving the world.

Mwinyi has made that call when he was speaking in memory (front time) of the death of the world chief leader of Kihansi, Twaha Tasafa, Dar es Salaam city.
He has said that the leader in his life did a lot of things to help people in different ways, an issue that people in today are supposed to emulate her example.
"Maharaj is one of the religious leaders who have succeeded in helping people, he is someone who had been touched by the lives of other people, people should follow its example," said Mwinyi.
The secretary of the National Executive Council (NEC) of CCM who is in charge of that company, Doctor Maalim Seif Khatib said that the leader is among the religious leaders who were present and not only their followers, but the whole world in the whole world.
"Today we give honor to the reason of acts and behavior of her good behavior and how it went to live, a situation that gives the eyes on the hearts of people's hearts," said Doctor Khatib.
On his part of a vibrant politician who was the minister of information and also the Minister of Internal Affairs of the country, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi said the leader has given a great contribution to a human life and he believes that when you get to our human beings well, that is why you have done well.
He said Maharaj is a leader who every human being in today's world is supposed to live by following his movements because he was a person with fear of God and he used to help the community.
"He is a leader who has helped billions of people in health services, school services and in various disasters, because this leader is for example, that is a big issue that is not supposed to go without spoken," said Doctor Nchimbi.
Speaking at the time of giving thanks, the Chairperson of the Mabisa Community in the country, Bexhill, Mwanza, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that the event was aimed at giving honor to the leader who died in the month last month.
He has said that the leader despite Maquei Lueth, but he was not aware during the support of their religious leaders in America, therefore they will take them to take the culture where for now they will get eight houses for the elderly and orphans in Dar es Salaam city.
He said the institution is in front of the community services and all the human being in general without choosing religion, color or tribe and that those are the teachings they were given by that leader.
