
Simba will not live, it is wrong.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

After Azam FC breaking the record this season of not losing the game in Mbeya, the team has sent greetings to Simba that it has no ability to threaten.

Azam FC is back in Dar es Salaam the day before yesterday from Mbeya and yesterday was expected to start exercises for preparations for the next game against Simba.
Speaking to this newspaper yesterday, the spokesperson of Azam, Jaffar Idd said he cannot talk about Simba as a good team because already he had already lost a name at home and international soccer.
"You cannot compare the Simba and Azam because we are playing home, are the champions of East and Central Africa, we are expecting to participate in the Confederation Cup competition," he said.
That spokesperson said that if it is to talk about the best team Azam is the amount of its reputation for doing well, different from Simba that has not done well in four seasons or take any championship.
She struggled that his team is best, has good coaches and that it has hope of scoring Simba in that game that will be played at the end of this week at Uhuru Stadium.
Azam FC is the leading in the Mainland Premier League leading with 10 points equivalent to Simba which is second in everything.
Previously there were a long period of time about the stadium that will be used in that match which Azam is the host that they wanted to be played on Azam Complex instead of Uhuru Stadium.
But yesterday's report from the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) said the agreements have been reached where the match will be played at Uhuru because of security reasons including Azam is out in Mbeya after breaking the record by scoring Mbeya City 2-1 by Prisons 2-0.
Last season Azam was defeated by 3-0 goals by Mbeya City at the Sokoine Stadium and also in a game against Prisons as a draw without scoring.
In the next game, despite Azam FC believed to have more than Simba's ability to participate in the international tournament, there are many times when the teams met with a draw in last season, there is no team that transported with his colleague after December last year from a draw without scoring.
