Gwajima was greeted by the wife of Doctor Slaa.
Sei, 10, 2015.

The bishop of Resurrection and Life Church, who is the mid-fielder who is the mid-fielder (Restoration Bible), and then vie for the presidency through the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), who came in that presidential position through the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), who will do in that party, to make sure that Slaa is not doing well in that party, Almighty God, has been told.
Gwajima did therefore, being his efforts to ensure Doctor Slaa does not wait, so as to create political strength Lowassa and finally make his presidential victory, on October 25th, this year.
It was on the morning of July 28th, this year, Gwajima did a lot of work to convince him to convince him to make sure that after being unable to agree and Doctor Slaa, who refused to give his advice.
Doctor Slaa is an indication that the situation which explained how different efforts that happened by several presidential leaders through Josephat Gwajima without success for a long time and Doctor Slaa has been published in this newspaper.
"If he is not fear of God, he will leave, and me that is why I'm talking to my wife, he went to look for my wife and he did not support him because she didn't support him because my wife is backed by many people.
By bad luck, he is using my motion that he has bought, I am not worried about the money given by bishops, but the bishop did not think it's not aware of the contract to protect CCM, I have said I cannot accept to do a contract with the devil of CCM, I have said I cannot accept to do a contract with the devil of CCM, I have said I cannot accept to do an agreement with the devil of CCM.
"There is a place where you are a modem.
Slaa and the presidency of Lowassa.
The former CCM secretary general, Doctor Slaa, in another step has continued to endanger the race of the presidential candidate of that party, Edward Lowassa.
To endanger the place, this journey, in a special interview with this newspaper of Mwema, Doctor Slaa has exposed his wealth with doubt of Lowassa.
According to the interview that was revealed at a long time in the 14 and 19 page of this newspaper, he says that "Lowassa, many people do not know what he is involved with the wealth of its wealth, it is not a sin, not what is wrong, not corruption, corruption and the way you got your wealth."
When you have narrated it more, he says that, "date 07, April, 1997, (Lowassa), he started him with his wife Mama Regina Barbosa from 500 shillings, and this is the prime minister, he was accused of borrowing (50 million), this one did not pay it."
He said Lowassa has many property which have been listed in the secretary of ethics for public leaders, an issue that is wrong, adding that after Lowassa's resignation from the prime minister, June 23, 2010, the company collected 9500 shillings from 60,000 shillings.
That is a total of 450 million shillings, they ask you at the time Lowassa has completed two years of ethics in the general elections, while Lowassa was the normal member of parliament because he did not mention them from the ethics committee because he did not mention him from the ethics committee because he did not depend on a parliamentary seat without even going to court, "he said.
