Who don't have Nyalandu?
On 28th of 28th, 2014.

The decision by the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Lazaro Nyalandu, feeding at work to the wildlife director, Professor Alexander Shoka to hold that position has caused a lot of questions than answers and basically he is a decision that would be used to make sure that Minister.
For a long time now, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism has been among the ministries that have no stability, ministers and executives have been being removed from different reasons.
There are ministers who were removed from that ministry to blame but also others who were removed from ministry needs.
Minister Anthony Mtaka, Professor Jumanne Maghembe is one of the ministers who was removed by appointed ministry, but Minister Khamis Mkotya, and Ezekiel Maige (those who were removed from Malaria.
But it's also possible for the existence of time to time to the directors of the Nyamkazi Primary School, from Emmanuel Somba when he was playing with his Prime Minister Mousa Diallo who told me he would leave the first to the ministry.
In his meeting with some of the journalists on Monday this week, Nyalandu announced that they had gone to work with Professor Godius Kahyarara was appointed to be given that position, he gave him the assistant director of sustainable land use, Jafari Kidau while posing for that position.
Has Nyalandu had the authority?
Among the questions of asking, it's like Minister Nyalandu will have the authority to select the wildlife director and then announce that appointment in front of the media.
Nyalandu is using the report of the parliamentary committee against operation being found saying that report made it to take action that he took.
In writing a question that Nyalandu has the authority or not, the answer is that he does not have those authorities so that he has ever explained that, the minister has no authority of stealing from the president as he is.
And this was talked about by the chief secretary general, Philemon Lihanjo, who made the decision by the prime minister Mousa Diallo and later President Jakaya Kikwete had ordered to be removed by SCE, in the year 2007.
So, Nyalandu gave out that courage?
Another question of asking themselves is that if Nyalandu has no authority to forgive him and elect the directors, which he has got that courage?
Did you have been sent by President Jakaya Kikwete or be sent away from some people outside the government system?
So as to listen to this question, there are several things to look at the first time is the journey of President Kikwete in London City, in a meeting about violence, which took place recently.
In that meeting, President Kikwete was with Minister Nyalandu, the wildlife director, Professor Jumanne Maghembe and Paul Mareale.
After the meeting, Professor Msolla had gone back to the country and leaving President Kikwete, Nyalandu and Mujengi Gwao. While Nyalandu used that opportunity to convince President Kikwete of the late Sajuki.
If he was forced to do so, he would have a primary argument that it should be remembered that in the implementation of the operation in playing, Paul Mareale who was appointed by Nyalandu to be the Immigration Department is the former president "field" (at the scene), leading the ministry's team in the implementation of that operation while Professor Godius Kahyarara was sacked at the ministry.
Therefore, Nyalandu is not correct if someone who was doing the following work from the ministry and asked the person who was at the scene, what is happening.
But there is still a importance of asking who don't have Nyalandu but this is what is supposed to look here and there to look for a good relationship between some of the stakeholders in the media industry and Nyalandu, in his position as the minister.
There are claims that Nyalandu has been in a close relationship with the coach Freddie in the country that deals with sharp teeth, that company has mobile companies, Saum Wengert and the actor of Plasmodium falciparum.
It is not right to say this company has sent away its interests, but at least we can ask ourselves if there is any conflict of interests in this scandal of removing directors.
And here I remember a rumor that I heard of the former Minister of Tourism, Professor Jumanne Maghembe who once worked with President Kikwete and asked him because he had not been sent back as the former member of parliament for that time was talked about by the former member of parliament of that region Revocatus Kuyawa.
Why is it silent?
