In our discussions today, we agreed on me to talk and talk about what we are continuing.
Where today, after our, it says that for what the youths like to live in the life of acting was not bad, we have said that the president has wrong to say it is.
Hayatou are very surprised to hear with the whole issue of the moment we are called to do life that we live a lot, therefore we believe I believe it.
Tomorrow, I was also known, I was also your soul in a foreign language.
For instance, it is that the lives of that life is that they can't get a lot of time just because you cannot live in other areas where you can't know if you have a car, but you can't know that if you have a car, but you want to realize that she has a car, but he is doing so so that he does not have the ability but not it's.
And the one who is living a life of the reality like the way of how it is because the reality is that you are living in the country, because it has live, but it's not a must for you to go back to our home for the neighboring country.
There is a must.
There is a good thing.
But the decision is.
He is not there.
My work is basically it.
I'm saying, and called me and I will not retire, Jackson is telling us that he has tried to inform us that she has tried to inform us that it is why the youth is targeting to do a car through the name is called.
I agree with a person who wants Jackson, that most of these boys are leading in living a life which is not true and this is because there are many people who live in school, there are many people living in our universities, but they want someone to live living a life that is not a problem.
For them, as it is due to follow the behavior of different people, if he said there are many girls who don't know that they are near their home, and not the real life of the issues that happened in them will find someone like a bad life.
They are in school everyone is not one.
He is a high branches in what I saw saying the eggs of inheritance left, he says.
He had gone to me that he has been able to accumulate 41 votes out of tax more than to live in life that most of them, see if we see your fake phones, we see what the preparations have, we have seen what happens?
It has any effects to the youth or a youth.
I hope that the effects are that when you live a own life is that it is the first private.
When you get married that you think that you would like you to get me for example, there should be a certain person, but if you get you, there should be a certain person, but if you get you, if you have no money, because it is one of the people who live with Chris Brown is not present.
The effects that are there in that area that we have benefited from that decision because it is not announced that we have a lot of things that you do not have any time and then I think this is a shame and I don't know what happens there was a shame and I don't know what happens there is no end of these days.
How do I have youths who?
Evade it in making sure they are already land with the youth and or to say maybe they are girls and boys or you can use girls.
I've heard of you, they have talked and that I am saying to address two sides that truly we are.
And there is a habit of someone else.
Now if this is in one way or another.
See you are also.
There is a person who is very good to speak to.
I know here, I met us and we agreed to agree with you and you know my life there and sometimes he is speaking with the girl to be he is surprised.
That this girl does not have a car even you know that they love our expectations that you eat at their girls.
All of girls who do not desire to do.
A man who has a man with a man who is a good thing.
Almighty God rest.
Because when he is in me, it was not true that it is not the real name that he would like to me because he can't know her friend even my husband we will go and later he will lead you.
He added me all of them.
They do not read it?
These statements are found.
Now.
Already even himself will not be bullied.
And those men are so there.
.
From getting a woman to get a lover who is very good.
However, they believe we are talking.
But not to buy.
It is not one day that he has any behavior which is good which is found in a woman.
He did not stay, maybe also to buy.
Or as a child.
But we can be able to borrow.
Ndanda FC tomorrow.
Who are the ones that we lead in here without forgetting God?
Queen has gone down to carry out the fees that you know is true.
It is true that a big percentage is spongers because you know self-malarial in the stadium during their time, you find the girl and you don't know what we don't know, then you don't know her and believe in sports at a fake bus.
Only, it's only the ones who are leading in the whole issue to live in life which is a good example now, she doesn't know how many girls get married and I don't see if I have found a lot of things to see me when I see you and I am together with me.
It's true that men are leading but he is doing so closely and they had a certain period but it's a period.
I has talked about.
It is not a must.
That she gets a certain girl, because that is why he tries to use it so that it is now.
And purpose, he succeeded to get that girl.
She knows the found that when I met with men, that is when you get through your car, but it does not want to get anything.
When the biggest of them that you are competing in himself, I was to refuse to refuse to deal with this problem but not the youth so we see that there are youths who want to deal with that problem but not the youth then we see that there is young people who don't speak until when his fiancée stopped the sun, "he has told it then it's at the end of their relationship.
If you should do to deal with this problem if I think it is that someone can be the real situation that he has because someone sees it and it is a must that the community that goes against them will allow the money to be poor or I will be able to accept it because it is bad.
That if you live a life of reality, you can be able to benefit from that life, but they have found another girl, the agenda of the school had gone to class seven and he knows how to know 'sorry'.
I will know you know.
But Dar es Salaam who is Nassoro, then use it.
How will I vote?
That is a different person, what is a person getting married after wedding.
How is alcohol?
That is not a terrorist?
Especially this issue, you know where it's why you could have a chance because you could have you like, then you do you know whether you like you, then you shouldn't know if you have reached class seven now to tell you that anywhere.
And elections, while you live.
You cannot get.
It is true the church?
We are listening to the youth?
For sure you do not know, you will have lost, I am pleased to listen to the youth.
Where we have seen that we will talk about our topics which it was said.
Why, a youth living a life of acting, that is in the language of our colleagues that we have seen, the youths are trying to explain more so that they are doing so that they are doing so, but they are also different problems.
We see that there are youths who are enough.
By depending on their real life now, youths should leave that so that we can be able to do so that we can be able to get opportunities that we do.
