
It is true Lowassa, science, will enable the economy of industries.

It has been written by Trump.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

The decision by the government was brought by the Minister of Education, Technology, Science and Vocational Training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako that starting next year, all the students that get in form one will take care of science, cannot get without support.

The idea is being received by joy and students who are studying in primary schools now, parents and cigarette help in general, as a result of the fact that it cares for the government's intention of getting into the economy of industries.
So as to get fully in the economy of industries, it is a must to prepare well.
Teaching the students to learn science since small, so as to reach higher education, they should have professional skills to run the machines, machines and industries.
The education policy that previously allowed the students to choose or pay the studies when they get to form three or studying science, mental disabilities, and the ability and leaving those who had no ability to study science subjects that have been outdated, and it did not help a nation to get to the economy of industries to achieve its goals.
In order to achieve or achieve the intention of being a country for industries, secondary students is an important part in the construction, the need for experts who are involved in science and knowledge of running the machines and industries in general since they are small.
In the fish, do not happen, and the inhalts that they get to secondary students in the process of getting into the economy of industries is same as to build houses in the stable economy, which is not easy to be demolished by the wind or the heavy rains.
The responsibility of students of primary schools, teachers and parents, is to support the government's strategy that has set aside 12 billion shillings in its budget for this year, to ensure they are bought for laboratory equipment for science subjects so that those students should stay, so they can be used in building the economy of industries in the country.
Also, the students is a good beginning to increase the speed of building different industries and it was for many years ago since independence.
His work was small in the construction of industries due to a system of marginalizing and a system of destroying science and investment, Charles Mwijage while reading the budget of his ministry, it shows that there was a small speed of construction of industries before Uhuru year 1961.
At the same time, Tanzania gets the Uhuru, it will attract several industries just because there was a speed of some level since independence until the year 2005, where Tanzania built industries and will be distributed up to 5,33 shillings.
The speed of the construction of industries has increased since December 2015, show that Tanzania mainland has approximately 776 industries.
In the last 50 years, if upcoming stars have been built since secondary schools until today, they had been contributing to a big level to start, to maintain and grow the industries in the country.
The teachers who are required to identify children of primary schools that science subjects are not difficult, it is equal to art studies.
Also, teachers in the secondary schools have been forced to children who are from primary schools to study, they should not help children that their science subjects are no difficulty but it's their attitude.
At the time it has come for teachers and parents, to join the citizens, including the lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam, Doctor Benson Bana and the chief adviser of the University of Dar es Salaam, Doctor Benson Bana and the chief adviser of the University of Dar es Salaam, Professor Kitila Mkumbo, have praised the government's strategy to make all science subjects since they get to form one.
