
Who built the source of Mambogo.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

The Minister of State, Office of the Vice President (coalition and environment), January Makamba has ordered the National Council of Water and Environment Authority (AU), to cooperate with the Wami-Ruvu Conservation Area and the Morogoro Municipality, to remove people who put up living in the water source of Mambogo on the end of next month.

That step is as a result of the destruction of environmental cleanliness in the source of that river for irrigation farming activities.
That situation has caused a reduction in water from its source from seven million American dollars for a day and three million shillings a day.
January said this yesterday after visiting the source of Mambogo and saw a huge shortage of water from other mountains in the source of that river as the source has been attacked by people by building their homes and selling water for their activities of irrigation farming.
Therefore, he said without taking that step, the government will have a great loss after building modern infrastructure for the highest price with the machines by removing water, which has cost more than 15 billion shillings to 16.
"People who are not married will leave early and be very fast, will be told that it will be able to leave, November at the end of this year, they have been removed from them in the area of this source," said January in front of the director of Morogoro Municipality.
He has also ordered the Wami-Ruvu Referral Hospital, Prize Kalunga with his people.
To cooperate with officials of implementing the East African region, which have legal efforts by the Municipal Council to run inspection, so as to identify people who have destroyed water.
He wanted that job to start immediately and those who will be found to avoid water from their activities, are arrested and they were taken to court according to the law of the environment.
"We do not tire you closer to these who are used to have built against the law in the water catchment areas," said January.
I urge the officers to make sure that you get the strength of the environmental law and if you were able to take them and remove people who put up themselves in the streets and be taken against them in Dar es Salaam, I don't know here in Morogoro, "he said.
