Rwanda is dangerous and parties to form the forces.
December 11, 2014.

Sunday, April 6th, Rwanda, and in the world, celebrating 20 years of a crowd that happened in the year 1994.
Rwanda is one of the neighboring countries and we hope, and there is a need to learn from what happened our neighbors.

Here at home in Tanzania, there have been a debate about the concept of political parties to form the security forces. Therefore, to form the squads of "militants."

As it appears, as a country, to be careful on the state of a special state which I got to say it has been a good state of a human being that he does not know it.

When we do not know, there are signs of having that is in a critical condition, Chiponda village.

Well, if the country we should give you a red card and she knows our country and its future, why we have begun to be satisfied between the political party and the liberation party for instance, Tanu was fighting for our freedom.
Tanoh, under the colonial administration made a form of its youth squad with an aim of protecting its leaders and even so that the commanders in the fight is that was called "Tanoh," and that inside there are youths with responsibilities of defense of the party and its leaders.
When the country started being independent, there is no need for political parties to have its security forces.
And this is a time when we reach you, without caring about our differences in religious, religious or color, we should look for one voice this issue and we should not agree or it is common for parties to have its militia forces.
Because, the experience is telling us that the activities of the fighters of the parties led to revenge killings and that is a very bad thing.
Because, when it is, when you give birth to hatred and finally we expect to start another point each other and what we used as we are listed in our country's countries we shall continue to see our country.
We believe that we benefit from general, we are many people like peace and harmony and even so, the group can be used quickly to disrupt the peace and stability.
We see now, the symptoms of some of the politicians, even by taking them to their parties, being ready to use a bullet and death so that the project can increase their political goals.
We expect that we are supposed to be careful, we are supposed to be careful, there is a very difficult time, there are those who are ready to give birth among them because on the excuse of our differences in religious, religious, saddens and even our color.
What should we do?
For sure, we will have a big offence if there are those who will use, be the effects of "the militants" of political parties that they will leave them about them.
Political parties that are very careful and a high level when you go to our country, will start now to stop the culture of having "militants, 'or youth groups that have been given the military training on security issues.
The history is taught us, that in Africa "we are able to speed up" or groups of political parties is the source of accelerating political violence by themselves in the country and even with the killing, we have seen Rwanda, Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo and elsewhere in Africa.
It is a few groups of the opposition parties which are used by parties, politicians, or not using them to work skillfully, by using weapons.
Here in our country already, big political parties have groups of that type, "Green Initiative '," CHADEMA members' pacemaker 'and CUF, "Blue Guebuza."
In a modern country it is not wisdom to have a procedure of running political parties to have groups like so as youths with getting military training.
And sure, our country's constitution will help to eliminate the current procedure by putting a ban on political parties to form the youth forces to sit down in the camp and to get military training, troops which can be able to come out and have great effects as a nation.
If parties will need security in its activities, then we thank defense and security companies that make legal action against the political parties.
Otherwise, so as to make sure the police force is set aside and it is growing a security agency that is believed by the public and it's impossible so as to put the nation's rights and not for politicians or their parties.
