Five come out to inherit the Lowassa of Monduli.
Brightiles 14, 2014.

Five officials of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), mentioned to come out to inherit the member of parliament of Monduli Constituency, Edward Lowassa, who explained that he will not vie again for that position in the general elections of the year.
Five members, the one being mentioned to be vying for that position is together with Daniel Poroshenko.
Lowassa who has held various positions in the government in a period of 30 years ago, including a prime minister, has been the member of parliament for that constituency since 1995.
The information followed by our citizens, from that constituency explained that Lowassa has already announced his intention of vying for that position as a result of looking more in contesting the presidential position in the year 2015.
That politician for a long time now, has been running political activities in CCM and other community groups with the aim of being approved by his party to vie for the top position in the country.
As a result of that step, Lowassa will not vie for the parliamentary position in his region, various leaders of CCM, that are in the country and outside Monduli, have been in the electoral process so that they succeeded.
Those officials are taking decision to Lowassa as a unique opportunity to get a parliamentary position and they have been struggling to contest for the members of CCM and the citizens in general, he believes that he will stop the shoes with Lowassa.
Your citizen has done news analysis and spoke with various religious stakeholders of Monduli, together with some of the cadres on their intention of vying for the challenges they are facing.
The first candidate to speak to Good Citizen is Daniel Makaziwe who for now is the CCM Secretary in Babati City and tried to vie for the parliamentary position in the year 2010.
In addition to that Poroshenko has been a great opportunity to inherit Lowassa as a result of a huge number of members since he was the chairperson of Upewe Promotion, Arusha Province, is faced with challenges of "not believed by Lowassa in the election.
Responding to the claims 2005 Poroshenko has explained that "the year 2010, the elders of the Maasais' in Monduli region have asked me to give him Edward Lowassa, and I am pleased with our elderly and to stop Lowassa, I believe that there was a primary reason to do that."
He continues to explain the theme "during the year 2015, I will wait for my party's election, and my big agenda in the elections is to ensure that in the footsteps of Honorable Lowassa in making social services in the health sector, education and water."
Poroshenko who is a shortage of community development in the University of Manzese (CLA), explains more that between primary issues that include the improvement of important social services in that region.
Another candidate Isaack Joseph Kadinda "who is the secretary of CCM of Arusha Province and the councilor of Monduli town region, was to the Citizen newspaper that he is true he is in the process of vying for that position.
Joseph was popular among the same kind, and he is explained as one of the leaders that did well in his councilor's position and the CCM's Publicity Secretary, by bringing great changes in the party to solve conflicts including conflict between the society and Makumbulu.
