JK leads the most important thing in the security or artists?
Jide 17, 2014.

Let me start this article by wish all Muslims my brothers for this holy month of Ramadhan, though these greetings are not only little, where for now, the last ten years (West Brom (T).

It is my expectations that our brothers Muslims will use this month of Toba to pray for our nation because its direction is not good.

We know if we consider we have a big problem of supposed to ignore the primary issues in the future of our nation, currently in a normal environment, it is possible with several injured but no one who will be accountable?

Recently, I have heard the minister of internal affairs, Mathias Chikawe, being interviewed by Radio France International about the "terror attack," I request that is true, the answers of that minister is not only, "Masau boasted.

Minister Chikawe explained that there are six people who had been expelled from a bomb incident from Arusha town, and two others have been arrested in relation to those two groups have a relationship, but when he was asked, he is supposed to be a terrorist.

Likewise, the minister claimed that legal action have been taken to control those events, whereby approximately all the estates it has been controlled to ensure that the terror attack will not be shaken. "

Likewise, he confirmed that the perpetrators are suppressing, some of Arusha and others in Tanga, but they got the terrorism training "elsewhere, (without saying it is inside or outside Tanzania).

My dear reader requires an expert on security issues to conclude that Minister Chikawe was just his responsibility to answer the questions that he was being asked if few suspects will be asked if there were six suspects who have arrested, then for sure there are big weaknesses.

Minister Chikawe has not affect the blame because his ministry is concerned about one of the security of citizens through the police force, basically those who are supposed to be handed over the great blame is the department of safety in the country because of their responsibilities of the institution to deal with terrorism actions at home and its signs of failing to work in that department.

I realize that those involved will not be touched by these blame but it is important to understand that we will continue to confirm this problem because there can be enough steps and we will continue to witness these events that move forward.

Several times we have continued to hear certain people have been arrested due to bombs, but up to this time the media agencies have never seen although the importance of bringing the public to the development of their investigation following the arrest of those people.

Recently, the former chairman of the commission of human rights and good administration, Judge Mark Manento said that he gave his opinion that the police force should be taken to blame because of bombs, by failing to prevent it to happen again.

Judge Manento said that in the first event of a bomb exploded at the CHADEMA meeting in Arusha town, the police force was unable to implement its responsibilities due to listening to the statements of political leaders.

And all political parties have been contributed by the development of these bombs, most of us remember how Mwigulu Nchemba did everything to convince China to prevent it from CHADEMA's incident that was caused by CHADEMA themselves.

That was after the official efforts of CCM has already been the senior leader of CHADEMA, Wilfred Lwakatare.

In the beginning of this article, I have condemned the availability of things to the future of our nation.
