
Who can end "mystery" of Professor Jumanne Maghembe?
28th of 5, 2015.

So, Professor Jumanne Maghembe (CCM) he will make it causing the 'lice' of the lawyer and famous lawyer, Joseph Tadu?
That is a question so as to ask many of the voters and political stakeholders in Mwanga region, Kilimanjaro Province.
Professor Maghembe is the current member of parliament and the minister of water, accompanied him for the seat since the year 2000 and already he has been made to announce that he also wanted again.
It is said that Professor Jumanne Maghembe and all the programs that they pass, he has been trying in elections due to what is explained as they are able to compete with the opponents, so they believe in his party.
And now, for the coming up of Ada Tadu, information from that province say that it has come for Professor Jumanne Maghembe at the small competition that is Athanase stupidity, "to rule the politics of CCM in Mwanga region.
Tadu has come out for the first time in 2010, participating in the opinion polls in the CCM, but he was unable to join Professor Maghembe at the elections that is mentioned to be a tough competition.
In that election of 2010 Tadu who is a member of the national executive council of CCM (NEC), Naali Professor Maghembe and 41 percent of the remaining votes.
"Professor Maghembe is wants to put record as one of the members of parliament who has served for a long time in that constituency as it was for Mzee Ngoyai Lowassa who was the long-term member of parliament for that constituency," he explains one of the members of CCM in that constituency.
The member of that union explains more that Maghembe can't achieve his dreams as a result of the opposition situation that he will enable them to work in his party and from the Union of parties that make up the Citizens Constitution (CCM) which is a lot of politics in that region.
According to the famous cadre, Tadu has for his position as a NEC delegate, he has been very close to the members and the leaders that feel it is the right time to set aside, Professor Maghembe.
"Different from many regions in the country, where there is a series of cadres of CCM who have shown intentions, here in our elections, the party will be war, only two, who is Professor Maghembe and lawyer Joseph Tadu," added that member of CCM.
One of the reasons that are mentioned to be used that can destroy the ball in that election is the problem of water so that together with that he is the minister of water, that province is still being faced with great water problems.
The reports indicate that almost 90 percent of the citizens do not have clean and safe water, although now the government is in the previous steps to implement the big water project in the districts of Same and Mwanga will cost 140 billion shillings.
It is said that in all the elections, Professor Jumanne Maghembe promised to address the water problem but for more than 10 years, he would not want to solve the problem, a situation that is claimed to be the source of members of CCM to ask for him because he has no new.
Moreover, other big problems in that region are the road infrastructure due to the geographic division of Mwanga region having a big part of the mountains in East Africa and lack of better health and education services.
The efforts of Citizen's efforts to get Professor Maghembe is not able to succeed, but even Ada Tadu he was not ready to confirm if he will vie for a parliamentary seat in that region in that election that will be held later in October this year.
"I am a member of NEC of my district, I do not be an example of managing the regulations of my party and the party still not allow officially the process of the election, therefore I am happy to confirm that I will wait," said Tadu.
He said that as it is for many regions in Mwanga region it is faced with political challenges especially the increase in opposition parties, therefore CCM must invest and get better candidates in all the parliamentary positions, parliamentary and presidential candidates.
"We see today's establishment and they are faced so much and they have a great importance in matters of democracy, they know who can be a good leader and therefore we need to get candidates with reputation inside the party," he said.
On the side of the opposition parties, it is expected that Chadema members will join Henry VIII who is the secretary of that party in Dar es Salaam city and was explained that he has been running the party's activities since the year 2011 in Mwanga region.
In a group photo with Raia Mwema, he confirmed that he intends to vie for a parliamentary seat in that constituency and he has organized himself to deal with any candidate that never happened by CCM.
I don't have fear and any CCM candidate as we are prepared to deal with political issues, the citizens of Mwanga have written, they are ready for great changes in leadership and that situation is due to CCM being unable to solve a huge problem in the region since Uhuru, "he said.
According to the possibility of a huge nuisance in that province, include the water problem of Mwanga, it is the district with clean and safe water to a large number of water and safe water for a very large percentage of its residents do not have clean and safe water.
"The leaders of this district have been unable to solve this big problem for a very long time, while making every time the number of people has been increasing and it has reduced due to this problem, German had seen many years ago in Llongero village," he said.
Furthermore, he explained that the Russian militants has advised the water sources to be included early before the number of people has not been successful so as to meet the challenges and he was surprised by the Minister of Water Professor Jumanne Maghembe and claimed that they will give water from the Kiroreli village and build a huge water catchment areas.
"The village that is surprised by Professor Maghembe is no water and her residents do not buy a lot of water at an amount of shillings 800 up to 1000.
"The water comes from Moshi town is brought by big vehicles and business people who have caused the lack of water to be the opportunity of getting money," he said.
He said that the district has a lot of water sources like leaders, including Professor Jumanne Maghembe and had good intentions of helping citizens to avoid problems of those origins, that is together with landslides in the location.
He added that Mwanga residents are farmers and breeders but the government has been unable to give infrastructure to those citizens to be able to benefit from the Housing Corporation of God together with Lake Kidney.
"The National Housing Corporation has launched a big region of natural gas which is good for agriculture together with livestock, a good example of the reality of the area livestock, a type of computers and the sheep has been very important because of getting water at all times," he said.
He added that if the government would have run having a good strategy which we have run to open small industries for the purpose of expanding the meat and that it would collect foreign revenue and as it is to give it more than 200 million shillings only. "
He said another problem is the road especially the mountains in the mountains like Kilongo and Ngapa Ward where together with his residents being unable to produce their income by lack of road infrastructure, which is bad and there is no businessman who was ready to take his car due to poor conditions.
He added that the problem of Mwanga is to have non-governmental leaders that do not know the priorities in the concerned areas because many leaders do not be implemented as water, health centers, roads, teachers and houses for teachers.
