
Etihad has launched a mobile phone program for customers to get the image of the journey.
Etihad Airways which is the UAE airline agency has launched an iPhone application that helps its visitors to organize and to coordinate their journeys more easily as the organization continues to deal with modern technology.
The customers of the Etihad Airways will enjoy a 10 percent reduction on the cost of air crafts and members of the Etihad Airways (2310) at the Etihad Airways (2310 / 2016), they will be able to try different sections of that program and its work performance.
Mobile Application for Etihad Airways is easy and interesting to use, it gives you the ability to coordinate your trip by using mobile phone technology and visitors can organize their journey in the program, including booking tickets, follow ups and check the real situation of the journey.
This plane's airplane has a partnership with the authority of Abu Dhabi Development Corporation, to help visitors to visit various parts of the authority of Abu Dhabi Development Company by using a high level in the central region including the map of the plane that was improved and it gives them more information about the order of the plane including their member of parliament.
The chief business officer of the Etihad Airways, Mister Peter Mwaluka, has said that if you miss the crown of the crown on the crown up to each guest, it will ensure our visitors will be happy with the speed of this phone system and therefore they can also enjoy the ability to organize their journey quickly so as they can also enjoy the ability to organize their journey quickly.
The Etihad Airways of Etihad has enabled passengers to follow their journey by using their mobile phones by using their Facebook account and also visitors can pay tickets by using their cards for procurement, this issue that causes the disturbance to be able to set aside the instructions of Msafiri and payment of payments to the support.

The easy procedure of getting tickets is to remove visitors compared to the fare costs so as to improve their dreams and in the coming section, which have been sponsored by one of the phone accounts and to be transferred to one of the phone system or to be transferred to one of the phone system or to be transferred to one of the phone.
This program is giving an amount of time to pass through a period of time remaining before a modem that comes to the field, this section helps the visitors to arrive at their gates of differences that was done to enable families and friends of passengers to follow their journey.
The phone program is one of the ways that performed poorly in the Etihad Airways as part of its digital strategy to help to provide services and products that are increasing the experience of visitors and ensure the expectations of visitors and make sure the passengers have been involved.
The chief information officer, the official launch of Etihad Bureau of Etihad, Mister Robert Kachumu has said Mrs Mwanamwema has said that the phone program, shows a big step in front of the strategy of the launching of digital visitors' through technology, we will make our visitors to have great ability and control and easily through the availability of tickets and experience of the journey, including how they want to talk and get to get to them.
The new mobile application company of Etihad Airways is available for controlling the Dictatorship in your phone through the iPhone.
