The security hospital in the city have continued to receive ten more patients and were admitted to the hospital following drinking alcohol of alcohol that are believed to have been charged with chemicals in the subject they used.
Speaking with the channel, captain the chief physician of that hospital, Carolyne Ekyasisiima, says that his hospital has only ten patients whereby he was given treatment while one was allowed to return home after getting affordable from life.
At the end of one time and died from two things and the things that lost their lives were five, he told the religious heads that they have understood the treatment in nine month and two were able to sell at an affordable price.
That ring, I witnessed those participants in a ward and they have talked about that they are continuing.
It is very happy I don't see Said I think I have no strength.
And he has given permission here if you were heard, I'm in the head and eyes too.
Bring light.
How many things have been many things in SHIMIWI.
He added if you come.
First, yesterday the day before yesterday because we were part of the funeral in that whole morning I have written here in our morning by women Miss Beatrice during a day of days.
To go to his evening in his morning, it is now to allow me.
And small eyes are in today to see what is happening.
He likes without doubt, they love him and my close friend together with hypocrisy.
Because related to you were done together with the alcohol issues we were doing.
On his part, the Chairperson of the government in the neighborhood of mental disabilities, Mister Mohamed Mpinga has said that some of the citizens have got permission to take the bodies of the late and continue with the burial, after being operated on after testing their condolences after being operated on.
Hayatou, I am taking their brothers, they are given out and here we are where we are looking at some of the bodies that they love.
The seven people died on the world recently after taking alcohol of the type of Bongo which is believed to have poison when they saw the documents of Bakari tennis ball.
