
I request to be given an increase in a big news hospital.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been released, October 25th, 2016.

The government has been requested to increase the hospital for the purpose of doing surgery for children with a big problem and an open up because currently, four that provide the service in the country.

The secretary of the association of parents with the children who are in big and open news in the country, Daniel Lyanga, said that during the commemoration of that day that took place at the Muhimbili National Hospital in Dar es Salaam city.
He mentioned the hospitals that provide the surgery services to those children in the country to be the Institute of Orthopedic (MOI), KCMC Referral Hospital, Mbeya and Bugando Referral Hospital.
"The aim of this commemoration is to provide education to the parents and the community to know that the problem because it is treated, also convince the government to boost the government in providing services and service providers because it is a few hospitals that can provide this service," he said.
He emphasized that parents still have the ability to travel long distances for the purpose of getting those services.
Our request is to see every province there should be a doctor with ability to provide surgery services, but in every province there should have the ability to make tests like CT scan to the provincial hospital this year, it will help in reducing the cost if you are going to hospital there are no additional tests, "he added.
On his part, the acting director of MOI who is also a specialist doctor for surgery, and on the open, Othman Makungu said 80 children are born every year with the problem in the country, among them 500 to 600 who come to the institution for treatment.
He said together with those problems, MOI has been running its surgery camp by going into the whole country looking for those children where they are.
The General Manager of NHO project, Albino Kadiliana said that they have been touched by the problem thus they have given bed-scale sheets for the purpose of those children with a value of 45 million shillings.
