
He wants the women to join groups.

It has been written by special writer, Mbeya.

I was published (03 / 2016.

Minister for Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu has made a surprise visit to Zitto Kabwe's stand in Mbeya town and urged women to join groups so as to access loans and get various business opportunities including training and markets services.

Minister Ummy spoke with the entrepreneurs that are doing business so as to follow up the implementation of the manifesto of the council to set aside five percent of its domestic revenue for the purpose of Women Development Fund.
He said the government will ensure it gives loans with low interest loans through the fund, and also put a conducive environment for building their ability to do business in safe environment, therefore, he had come to advance yourself in groups so that they can be taken by those opportunities and loans to be easily available.
Women entrepreneurs, at different times said, the big challenge that they will fight is lack of capital and markets, a situation that forced the minister to ask for community development officer of the City Council to ensure that he gives them loans to those women in this year 2016 / 17.
Also in that market, Minister has explained that they are happy with the efforts of the head of Mbeya Region, Amos Makalla and the head of Mbeya District, William Ntwa Mitego, to encourage the entrepreneurs to do their businesses in the cleaning environment and the use of business equipment in that area.
He urged other councils to follow the plan of doing business in the cleaning environment so as to ensure we are maintaining the cleaning of our towns and environment of small business people.
In addition, visited the prisoners of the children in the city where he spoke with approximately 16 children and explained the government's intention to ensure the children in the school are getting their primary rights especially the right to get education for development and development.
