That member of parliament is unacceptable, and support "of Lowassa.
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2015.

The secret of the great victory for the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in the general elections of October 25, for the council membership position in the northern region, has praised it is evidence and support "Edward Lowassa.
CHADEMA representing the partnership of other three parties that make up what is called the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) in the provinces of Arusha, Manyara and Kilimanjaro, got a great victory in collecting parliamentary seats and parliamentary seats.
Those regions will have done well in Arusha where they received five constituencies out of seven and Kilimanjaro where they received seven constituencies out of nine and in Manyara province, they got two constituencies out of seven constituencies.
Moreover, members of parliament had given many councilors seats, especially in the Arusha town region where they were able to get 24 seats of councilors, while CCM continued with only one seat.
It is evidence?
Reports that got to Good Citizen from several constituencies in those three provinces explains that the great victory is due to what is claimed to be evidence that was done by some of the CCM leaders, Edward Lowassa.
Before moving to parliament, earlier on July, this year, Lowassa tried to vie for the presidential position through CCM and his name was removed from the election stages and sessions of the party.
While talking to this newspaper at different times, the senior officials of CCM in Arusha province claimed that the party was faced with its close leaders in all the regions of Arusha Province and their leaders who were on the Lowassa's network.
One of the leaders explained, "it should be known since the year 2012 during the election process of CCM at different levels, Lowassa made its network by taking them to power, many leaders from branches of branches, ward, district and province."
According to that leader, the aim of building that network was to help Lowassa to win easily and to be approved by CCM sessions so as to be the presidential candidate of that ruling party.
"After Lowassa being identified as the name in Dodoma and decided to move to parliament, many leaders and his followers joined CCM and continued to hold their positions within the party, but the hearts were for the parliamentary candidate," he added.
Those reports are indicating that together with his intention of wanting to be the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, Lowassa by using its experience in the political sector he wanted to be remembered by CCM in the map of Tanzanian politics and also to deal with his political rivals.
Lowassa used his support to be seen "to make sure that CCM does not be forgotten, especially his political rivals like Christopher Ole Sendeka (Simanjiro), who in a environment that was going on in the law, James Ole Millya.
According to another senior leader of CCM, several leaders of the district of Arusha Town, Monduli, Longido, Arumeru East and Western regions were involved in doing the parliamentary campaigns, especially during night and therefore controlling the CCM members and his candidates.
Mke Mwema has been given a list of not less than 17 leaders in those regions including the directors of the party, leaders of government officials who are alleged to be the source of failing to sit for CCM in the election.
"All the leaders who participated in the high level and are believed to be more honorable in the community, it was very easy to them to convince him to vote in the sessions that are not official, that they are required to support changes," added that leader.
The secretary of CCM of Arusha Town District, Ferouz Bano, is being supported by the claims by those leaders by explaining that the claims of the presence of parliament is open.
"We will also know the ones that we feel that we will inform us that the parliamentary victory came as a result of their political parties, the truth is that CCM we have been charged with our fellow leaders who had a draw of CCM afternoon and the night they were carrying a Magoza village," said Bano.
According to Ferooz Bano, the top leadership of CCM has said that the party's leadership of the party will be approved by its leaders, and there is a probability that the possibility of taking place for investigation after the attempt failed to be completed.
"The national leaders have already been all the reports about the political situation in our party in Arusha Province, but I cannot speak more about that situation we are waiting to see if there is a step they will take over after the election," explained the secretary.
