
Governor Ndulu, Mafuru at the court.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

The High Court of Dar es Salaam, has blamed the Governor of the Central Bank (BoT) Benno Ndulu, and the operations officer of Feng GE, Lawrence Mafuru, that they will also take the court, to explain how they will take a order that he wants to pay a 92 billion shillings.

The officers are required to ensure the court in the Ivory Coast company Twilumba Mlelwa has said that those funds and if they will be unable to do so, they will be supported in prison as the prisoners of the case of claims.
The implementation of that order is due to the decision of case number 129 in 2009, the one commanded the bank of Al Ahly in the year 2009, that shown the bank of Al-Shabaab to pay his factory and are selling them to the Bongo Star TV Limited company.
It's being sold to that factory due to the conflict of paying the loan that the Coast company started a mixture of that bank.
BoT has been involved in that process as a result of taking the operations of the Feng E Bank after that bank being involved with knowledge of money in the country, Guests us.
The officers were required to arrive in the court on September 16th this year to explain how they will take that order but they did not arrive because they have presented their request to stop the case which has been planned to be heard today in front of Judge Ama Munisi.
In the primary case that was opened by the Coast company, the court noted that the company has 21 billion shillings and a total of 21 billion shillings per year since June 28, 2001 until the judgment took place, July 27, 2015.
After that decision, the complainants won the application that resulted from that judgment, which is difficult, the interest is equivalent to 922 billion shillings.
As a result of that request, the court warned the Governor of BoT to arrest two accounts run by the Feng E Bank, however, BoT presented the requests for the legal ownership of the accounts being implemented and asked the court to stop the order because BoT is not among those involved in the foundation stone.
BoT has intervened in that issue because it is currently the chairperson that is representing the fund that is run for the bank of Al Ahly in order to protect the development of the customers after that bank being involved and presented money.
After listening to those applications, the court gave out that order and urged the bank to get money, even so the complainants bought other applications in accordance to the judgment in the high court.
In the request, the registrar of high court, Major General Projest Rwegasira, gave seven days to the officers to arrive in the court, to explain how they will pay the money for those funds and unable to be supported in prison like the prisoners of the claims.
