The cotton sector brought to stakeholders about equipment.
Petit 30, 2016.

There has been an error in the cotton sector by both buyers and the farmers had a high level of prices, while farmers want to pay 50,000 shillings for one kilogram of the cotton industries (PAD) in the world.
The session of planning the price that took place at the beginning of this month in Mwanza town and attended by members of the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCA) and the chairmanship of the Tanzania Tourist Board (TCA) and the chairmanship of the executive director of Pamba board, Mister Gabriel Mwalo, was canceled due to the implementation of the price, after farmers representatives from their party have begun to boycott the debate.
The cause of.
The criteria used in making the cotton price to the farmer include the price of paying taxes in the world market, a level of considering money from American dollars to use fuel and various donations, which are reduced and both buyers to increase the price to the farmer as a cost of operation.
The General Secretary of COMING, George Mpanduji, he claimed that the region will be the level of change that was supposed to be 2,200 shillings per hour, different from 2,150 billion shillings per liter, different from 550 / = shillings per liter, different from 550 million shillings (TCA) but the two sides tried to cater for taxes and various government levies.
Godfrey Mshilili in the country, the acting chairperson of Parkal Randall Company confessed that, the cost of production to the farmer is high due to the poor income because of poor eyesight and antibiodine which affects the farmers and the low-scale farmers.
"The price is under 1,200 / = to the farmer," he said and gave a call to farmers not to sell their farms at the price until it is understood. "
During the time he said that, the Secretary General of Parkal Randall Company, George Mpanduji, he noted that, farmers and the cotton industries are accused and that every one wants to remain in the market, but that everyone wants to be living in the market, but those of the government that will pay for costs for more than 60 / = shillings per liter.
While speaking after the breaking of the session of stakeholders and by giving instructions to defend the 722 / = Tanzanian market, the Deputy Chairperson of TCA, Gasper Mboya, said that the real price of cotton 7 million in the world market and the world is not expected to rise and the price of the internet will not continue 550 / = shillings per liter.
The manager of the oil importing fuel company from Shinyanga town, which is big more than all the lake region, Jerry Qam, told BBC Sport that his company will destroy the cotton industries at a price of shillings 500 shillings per liter, but by the value of a knee injury and not otherwise. "
Reduction.
Stakeholders accused the Pamba board together with the lympics fund for being unable to supervise and control actions against the farmer that could be used by the cotton industries together with the district councils to increase productivity and income.
While giving examples, John Kalalamana (MASACA) said that for a period of four seasons for the year 2012 / 13, some companies of Pamba have discovered to sell the small-scale farmers that don't jump and on the other side, for two consecutive years, Cedars-communicable diseases.
"These actions include corruption, economy and corruption of the cotton sector," he said and urged all the ones that were arrested are arrested, and explanation that corruption have been banned from the cotton board, claiming that you can't put aside an end, but by the strength from outside. "
