Is why Vincent Kigosi had killed his family?
Brightiles 24, 2015.

Another child, the late Judith Chikomo, who was two years old was found on the side of the legs, his mother was killed by being shot dead, also a big with black patches that had been closed down and left below.
A biological mother of Joosub, Rich Mavoko has been made after being shot dead in the polling stations, he had been made after being shot in two times in the outskirts of pistols which he was caught in order to deal with the killer that was found on his edge.
At the same time the husband of the late Joosub, Vincent Kigosi had arrived at the Power Breakfast show from Atletico Madrid where he was arrested for a long time in North Carolina, where he was arrested in those killing, he found a big group of journalists following his cargo.
But her lawyer called Floyd has decided to give him that opportunity, "Samatte, he will not be able to talk for now, he will not be satisfied with his wife and his children."
The incident of the killings of that family had shaken the city of an Baker at home for praying for the deceased that was attended by more than 200 believers in the house they were living in the church including Beekeeping Association, Shabaan Kanuwa and the believers that attended that service that, the Bible say.
Speaking soon after a sister's sister, Joosub, popularly known (51), he said, "they have killed his body, but they have not decided to mention any person, because God is the only one who is the sun."
Similarly, he continued to say that, "I am happy that is that this is a brutal murder to God, it is the only person that did recently, never I will not mention any person concerning this killing."
My brother Joosub, Harfanti (46), who attended the service, speaking during the service, he said that this is not a time to build a lot of hatred and kill them.
Later, Vincent Bromwich, was arrested and questioned the police at the police station of that city on an eye on stage, but even so he was released by police said that they have no better evidence to check the charges against him by being involved in those killings.
Something that was putting the news headlines, police is to know that when she was Vincent out of that day on Sunday, a day that those victims were seen to be successful, and on Tuesday morning, the bodies of those victims found this year was a great examination of those victims.
Speaking soon after Vincent Kigosi was released after being questioned by his lawyer, Floyd Mayweather, said, "if those killings were implemented on Sunday, it is where police believe that Vincent left the city on an eye on field but it was not there, when they were shot."
However, the lawyer refused to say Vincent was out of July 2, and in the evening of July 8, 2003 with police officers of Ohio police station on Friday and therefore they registered themselves, they did not speak anything related to the results of their investigation.
Vincent went to citizenship, on the eyes of the police he invented the one suspect in being involved with the killing of his family's family claimed that Vincent was not ready to tell him about the place when he was on that day of murder, and that is the reason for them to destroy the killing of those killings.
This is Vincent Kigosi, why the police had to understand that in accordance with the killing of his own family, Vincent Brooklyn were born on May first, 1962, in poor families in New York city where he was appointed to be the deputy vice president of the school, 1995.
He was a terrorist who was known in that town of Bakkal, at the field located in Cibitoke village.
