
Lukuvi told the investor.

It has been written by John Ndeki.

I was heard of 12 September 2016.

The Minister of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, William Lukuvi has ordered the Institute for preventing and fighting corruption (TAKUKURU) and police to investigate the environment of an investor who was mentioned by the name Kocha, to get a certificate of 1,000 acres with his request for being given 100 acres.

The investor presented a request to be given 100 acres to the government of Namahura ward in Kilombero District, Morogoro Province, Honorable Lukuvi urged the media houses after listening to complaints by citizens and the government leaders of that village being led by the councilor of Namibery.
The leaders that asked him for the request of the investor to be given 100 acres and approval by the general meeting that has been signed by all the sides, but the investor is what was forced to reach 1000 acres which was mentioned in accordance.
Before giving that decision, Minister Lukuvi wanted the appointed land officer of Kilombero District, Rogasian Kaijage, to give an explanation on that issue, which confirmed that the investor had a certificate of owning 100 acres of that village and not 1000 and therefore increase 900 acres without having legal documents.
He also urged the police and police to follow up on the provision of traditional documents to 400 acres which are in Selous National Park and if the land is available within the park, the documents are being executed immediately because the issue is under the ability of the Kilombero District Council.
In another step, Lukuvi said that the government had a taste from its land with a size of 6000 shillings, which was owned by transportation of the Coastal Union who participated in heaven area after being satisfied with the owner not in the area.
He urged the leadership of the government of the district to prepare a procedure of dividing them to citizens by following the plans of better land use and to set land land.
Apart from taking those acres to the citizens, Minister Lukuvi said that the government has completed the talks with the sugar industry of Kilombero District (KMU) by getting 350 acres to citizens living in the investment area.
He directed the Kilombero District Commissioner, James Mkumbo to meet with the leadership of the Sugar Board in the country to solve the land issue of Mihande villages and in Makandu so that they can do elections due to those villages in the land area, that was specially set for the agricultural project.
