
Kitilya Mkumbo, his colleagues in the court.
James Magasha, the Citizen's Parish, @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam City, the retired prime minister of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Harry Kitilya Mkumbo, Miss Tanzania 1996, Shose Sinare and Siwema who was called the High Court in Dar es Salaam and passed on the date of listening to appeal against them after being removed from the charge of money.
Those accused were called in court yesterday after that court accused the case facing a case facing him from the decision of the Republic to present a report of the intention of wanting the appeal to oppose the decision to remove the charge of finances.
Previously, those accused were put in the dock at Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court facing a case, that is when Judge Adolf us Mchaga who spoke to him that they are supposed to arrive in front of the judge in charge, therefore the instructions of today is that all of him are in charge of the judge in charge of today's instructions.
"We have used the decision and the trend of the process is ready, the debtors to collect them from this process will be mentioned again on May 18, this year," said Judge Mchaga.
After being postponed for that case, the convoy for people who came to court to follow up on the case being led by the accused lawyers, started towards the High Court.
At the time the case was called by the judge in charge, Moses Mzindu said that the accused were not ready to move in court, but there was no defense lawyers.
Despite being called to court there and placed on the end of their appeal, it was noted that Jamhuri hasn't appeal by presenting the reasons for his appeal.
Instead, Judge Chande has said that before him, there is a report of the United Republic to appeal.
As a result of that situation, lawyer Majura the one who is supporting Kitilya Mkumbo said that they go into the same way until that time, there was no appeal that is in court.
After a brief talks between Judge Mzamy and defense lawyers, they agree that it is expected to arrive in court tomorrow because of the hearing of what will happen if the Republic will have an appeal.
Kitilya Mpolo and Solomon are officers of Stanbic Bank Tanzania were admitted to hand over the charges, including the charge of collecting money from 6 million American dollars.
It is alleged to have seen those mistakes between March 2013 and September 2015 during the process of the loan of 550 million American dollars to the government of Tanzania from the Standard Bank of England.
