
Congo has been directed to do players for permission.
By John Lukuwi.

The Federation of Football Association in the country has ordered AFC Leopards Soccer Club to inherit Roberto Cavalli and James Silas.
Those players have told that club a letter wanting them to leave after the rumors of getting their salaries for three consecutive months.
Those players have used the law of the International Federation of FIFA that runs a player to break the contract with a club which has been unable to pay for three consecutive months.
Congo is being faced with a difficult situation following the claims that earlier on that, his goalkeeper Martin Musoja together with a vibrant mid-fielder, Humphrey Mihayo said they will be allowed to join another club.
Meanwhile, there is claims that the reliable striker, Noah Lembris, has done an interview with TID they went to play for him.
But the reliable defender of AFC Leopards Soccer Club, Jackson Saleh has denied the rumors of the media and said that he did not love anywhere.
Speaking with the Taifa Stars yesterday, Saleh confessed that he got an interview with the officers of Gor Mahia who wanted to sign him but he decided to continue to play for Spain.
His contract with the former champions that ended yesterday, but he has agreed to give a new offer after doing an interview with the heads of though they have.
Saleh was a student and a player of St John Deere Company of Plasmodium falciparum.
Spain's problems started after a certificate of fees that are being taxed (Kemi) scoring its account due to a debt of millions.
The efforts of though we agree and put in solving that problem of debt have been unsuccessful.
Meanwhile, maybe the right defender of that club, Edwin Ambandusi ula has joined the champions of the Premier League, Gor Mahia. That player is among the expected to break their relationship with though they were not ready to sit without being paid.
Through the network, that star sent a message saying that according to FIFA rules, he is free to join any club that drain water. "I continues to work with any club of St Anthony, Kitale gave him that she had already joined Preston.
He was accepted for the permanent contract in the year 2011.
The Kikio Team has lost its players among them the defender, David Ochoa and Zesco United States of Zambia, Gor Mahia FC has made a squad to participate in the competition to vie for the championship of African Champions League (CAF) which will take place next month.
