
The child of the late Mwalimu Nyerere has announced for him for vying for the presidency of 2015, he is in good health and health for the purpose of that state.

One day after the National Electoral Commission (NEC), said that the general election campaign will begin on August 22, this year, Makongoro Nyerere has shown an intention of vying for the presidency on the Revolutionary Party ticket (CCM).
Makongoro who is the first child of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, announced his intention yesterday in Mbeya town.

He said at this time he feels she is ready for health, a child and has the power to serve the nation, thus he will take a form to vie for that position.
Makongoro who in the year 1995, moved to the opposition by joining NCCR-Revolution and succeeded to win the parliamentary seat of Arusha region, he said that the intention he will put it open by talking to the journalists on two or three days before those involved with CCM to start taking forms.
Already several cadres of CCM have announced to vie for that position with others being mentioned to want the presidency.

Some of the cadres mentioned to know the presidency through that party is retired prime minister, Frederick Sumaye and Edward Lowassa who is currently the member of parliament of Monduli.
Others are Bernard Membe, who is the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation, Steven Wasira (Minister of Agriculture and Technology), January Makamba (Deputy Minister of Communication Science and Technology), and the member of parliament for Sengerema, William Ngeleja.
Others are Doctor Hamis Kigwangalla, the Minister for Transport, Samuel Sitta, the Member of Parliament for Songea town, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi, minister of Constitution and law, Doctor Asha Rose Migiro, Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Lazaro Nyalandu and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mwigulu Nchemba.
CCM, which has taken the country since going back to political parties, we have found themselves in a difficult time every time when it is required to give a candidate to inherit the president's position in power, after leading two years of five years.

Makongoro posted his intention in the time when he was receiving on behalf of the family of the father of the nation, an award for leadership that was established and patriotism that was given by Christians festival in Mbeya province with the aim of recognizing his contribution to the nation.
Makongoro who is the retired captain of the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF), said that, "therefore, there are words that concern him and I have not heard, and because you feel I would like to explain even me I am ready to serve the nation at that position (presidency).

"I've heard that CCM have announced the schedule of taking the form, therefore my order is to inform the people that the two day or third before those involved with CCM to start getting forms I will talk with the journalists to explain my decision about the issue," he said.
If we came out and emerged as the presidential winner then he will be the second child of the nation to lead the country, after peace in Karume will lead Zanzibar.
Peace Karume is a child of the president of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (EALA), Sheikh Abeid Aman Karume.

Pemba.

The child of the former president of Tanzania who is also the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere popularly known as Makongoro Nyerere who is expecting to announce his intention to vie for the presidency in the next general elections in 2015.

According to the report given today to the media, it has noted that Makongoro Nyerere would announce his intention to vie for the presidency through the Revolutionary Party by one month of February this year, that is on Monday.
