
He resorted from now.
Lack of affordable houses to employees has mentioned the government's government to have a private government to enter the contracts and personal investors to help build residential houses.
The shortage has been as a result of the increase in workers in the opposition offices, he said that they need to live a good place.
Up to now, he from Kisumu village, Kakoma, Kakingo, Baamar and destruction that have got in that contracts.
The other is Kiselya Village, Upendo Primary School and 26 youths, were said that the projects will increase the money until the level of an average of an average.
In that contracts, he noted that they will give land to be given part of the ownership of those projects and investors they are involved with construction.
While speaking to the nation today in a different interview, the police officers said that after the completion, some of the houses will be sold to employees and others continue to be transferred to the cost of construction and benefits.
The fourth schedule of the constitution explains the responsibility of managing the residence up to he said that they have been listed under responsibility of planning and welfare.
He said the destruction that has been revealed, he said that he said that he is doing investigation to recognize areas that need more homes.
Mister Byakanwa said that he has also signed an agreement with the banks so as to give them loans.
"There is a shortage of houses in the village, he said that there and we will know that by producing the public servants through the public and private sector (PPPs)," he said.
The fellow musician, Jack Kabudi, said they are blocking the house which its equipment had been made in poor estates of Plasmodium falciparum.
Mister Rwizile said that the project of construction of houses that is in partnership with the French government, will also give opportunities to residents to get part of the ownership.
"First we will encourage land to identify their value and make sure that we affect the ownership of every owner of the land which will be provided to the public he will look for the part of the ownership of those property," he explained.
Damian Soul and Kakopi Kapesti ', he said that he had signed an agreement with the China organization from Henley Gmwaijonga has said that the project will involve two houses and three houses to sleep at 47 million land.
