
The parliamentary committee of parliament is vying.
May 15, 2014.

Last year, the speaker of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, Anne Makinda, in collaboration with the leadership of parliament, they did a decision to form the parliamentary committee of parliament.
That committee was brought together with other various committees which include together, each one started its work officially from March, last year, at that time it was ready for this 10 parliament has attained a half time of the parliamentary life.
Speaker Ann Makinda is the one who announced the changes of those committees and it will be remembered that in those changes, he removed the executive committee of public organizations (POAC) and POAC Committee (PAC).
In those changes, the new committee that made up of those results were the budget committee, regional administration and local governments, and security committee that was separated from the committee of foreign affairs and international cooperation.
Makinda clarified that in that time, the responsibilities of the new committee of the budget, which is together with following the implementation of the government's budget and financial policies, other responsibilities is to identify and expand the sources of government revenue and to follow the growth of the economy.
That budget committee has also given the responsibility of requesting all other committees about the budget and it is by considering the changes of last year, and the state of implementation of the budget in the ministry, we believe that the budget committee has not implemented its responsibilities well.
In these previous steps of the parliamentary meeting in Dodoma town, we have witnessed some of the ministries were unable to implement the budget that was sponsored by parliament for this financial year that is completed by that ministry, to fail to implement the budget, in a way they can be involved with shortages of the budget.
We advise the parliament to put more effort on how to enable this committee to have a lot of success so that it can remove the ministry to implement the budget which is called in parliament.
