
Historic events today built.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

Today, September first, it is a historic day for Namibia where most of them are day in Rujewa Town, Mbeya Region, it comes in your whole history in the world due to an incident that causes many people from within and outside the country to witness the solar eclipse.

It is said that for the last time the incident of the solar eclipse was on April 18, 1977 and that it will happen again on May 21, 2031, if you remove it, today is the end of the commemoration of 52 years of the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF).
But also there is an event by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa who is the executive director of the government activities moving to Dodoma province, being a sign of the government to move the headquarters of the country in that province.
All events are the plans of God that he has wanted to be based on how many people do not die for several days, there have been different reports about today's day which has a historic events.
The commemoration of JWTZ results since its establishment in September, there was a historical event and is reminding the relevant activities of the army to fight against the army men in their camp they will another one other things that involve the youth and other groups.
Those soldiers will also give blood in different stations, they will do cleaning in some areas of the city by partnering with the office of the Provincial Commissioner for another historical event that will arise in Rujewa Town, Mbeya Region, where that event is historic because it happens every after 16 years.
It is an event that is mentioned to increase the tourist attractions in the country and especially in the southern region, for sure that today's events should be able to be proud of anywhere in the world by those actions and never one person should not be known by any incident.
It is also good for an eclipse of the solar eclipse and the military day, have been directed to students anywhere in order to know the important issues, including peace and cooperation through the historic events.
As a result of the solar eclipse, we have witnessed different people from outside the country heading to Mbeya Province for the purpose of that event, something that has announced the country in another way on the face of the world.
It is good for the directors and leaders of Rujewa ward in Mbeya province to ensure they are looking for the area to make a historical area with the aim of ensuring the tourists are coming and therefore get foreign funds.
Also by using that incident, it is good to make sure that the opportunities to the residents of those areas without stopping the incident to end today, but they were at the areas every time.
Despite the eclipse of the solar eclipse, also the commemoration of 52 years for doing various community activities should be an example to others for making the commemoration in that way, including contributing blood for sure this day has been unique due to the fact that all historical events will be done with fear in various ways in order to build the country.
Apart from those two events, the prime minister said this month is going on in Dodoma province as a sign of implementing the promise of President John Magufuli of moving to the province, being the aim of the government.
