
RC is giving 24 hours that had gone to a forest.

It has been written by Pickup,.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

Rukwa Regional Commissioner, Zelothe Steven has condemned the people who were involved to burn in Selous National Park with a size of 1,300 acres, while requesting the police commander, George Kyando within 24 hours ensure those people have been arrested.

Moreover, he has instructed the leadership of the neighborhoods, villages and ward to form security groups that will ensure that water sources are protected and be safe.
Speaking with this newspaper, Zelothe has said that the destruction that was done in the reserve area of the Mbijima has caused a big loss and he will not depend on sleep until those involved were raped and killed.
A forest in Sumbawanga Municipality in Rukwa province with a size of 1,300 acres that were planted marijuana in trees has been closed down by unknown people on the night before yesterday and caused a huge loss.
That forest that is supervised by the Technical Services Agency (TFS) is in 12 kilometers from Sumbawanga town, is a big source of water for the residents of Sumbawanga town together with being the residence of the reds being surrounded by six villages.
The PPK pension fund manager, Mohamed Kiango, said the fire was built on different areas at a time when it reached 7 o'clock in the night before the day before yesterday and accused of 100 percent but a loss was caused by situation is big.
He was grateful for the groups that came out and succeeded to put off the fire among them being the traffic squad (FFU), traffic police officers, police force, servants of that forest and the citizens.
The owner of that forest including Paul Mapunda, Baden Thurston, Mariupol City has explained his disappointment with and torched in the forest that was giving them 400 people.
The Rukwa Regional Police Commander, George Kyando said that the ongoing operation is going on and promised that those people were arrested and arraigned in court.
