
The cries in danger of the referral hospital in Mbeya, ALBINO who was cut off.

Rashid Mkonga.

It is during the afternoon at 7 o'clock in the Mbeya Referral Hospital! Where he has been admitted to a child with skin disability (ALBINO) who was injured by being supported by a heartless person since he was found in Kiparang'ori, Sumbawanga district, Rukwa Province.

The heads of the provinces, Abbas Kandoro (Mbeya) and Stellah Mgumia (Rukwa) to visit the child with skin disability, Baraka Cosmas (6) who has been cut by his hand of supporting people with unknown people and leaving it.

Sadness and grief, the 8 ward 'ward in the southern highland regions where patients and other citizens found himself being buried and tears when I saw a child who is not guilty of the support that is not guilty of the support.

The mother of this child, Prisca Shaaban (27), who also been hurt by being beaten by a club head explaining the tragedy that attacked him on an attack.

"

Or for sure it is clear that the cause of the high level that was not affected by human beings to her colleague, in a normal environment is difficult to believe this type of witchcraft being productive to those who do in witchcraft, "the provincial commissioner of Rukwa, Stellah Mambo said this.

"

And the Provincial Commissioner of Mbeya who is the chairman of the heads of all provinces in the country, said that the albino environment has continued to be in danger because of lack of cooperation between the citizens, "the murderers, who are among us live and eat with them," he said.

The leader of a physically challenged person, Hovind, said that if the government has the ability to protect elephants who do not accept to be keen on their colleagues and that it is possible for the security against albino people and that it is good then they are taken to prison so as to live as prisoners.

"I believe if we are going to play soccer there are enough security because we do not have security and we are continuing to be taken by the killing," said he said.

Prisca has a total of three four children among them are disabled people where one of them is that one who had been supported, he has requested the government to help him from the fear of life he has.

"I have four children Baraka (6) that were supported, Lucia (3) and Shukuru (9) where the only child who has no disabled is Jafar (11)," he said.

He noted that on that incident, her husband Cosmas Luseko says he had gone to sleep with a small wife where he was attacked by a person who wanted to buy a mother who he wanted to take him a head on head to take a child and brought him to the right hand.
