
Tanzania will win for the executive council.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

Tanzania is among 36 countries that have won the seat of the Executive Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
That election has been done the day before yesterday in Ihanga village, Canada, at the 39th International general meeting of ICAO and Tanzania was chosen to be in the council through the third group of non-communicable diseases where there are 13 countries.

News from the meeting explained that election is divided into three groups, other groups that are getting in the council is the one of the countries that are important to air travel and another group that are giving great contribution in the air transport sector.
In a group of important countries in air travel, the countries that were chosen to enter the council are Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, France, Germany, Germany, Japan, England and America.
The second group of the countries that are giving a big contribution of the air travel equipment are Argentina, Colombia, Egypt, India, Saudi Arabia, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Spain, South Africa and Uruguay.
Tanzania got 150 votes out of 172 votes which were scored by one of the stakeholders in the air transport sector, Fadhil Manongi said that if Tanzania has been selected again, it will be the second time among the council which is the most difficult decisions about the air transport sector in the world.
"It is not that getting in the country will fight against the interests of our country, but it will fight for the interests of the countries in the south of Africa that Tanzania is representing the council," said Manongi said that the great job to be done by a member of the council is to defending the interests of the country which is one level in the air issues.
"For example the poor country has its aircraft and it wants to do a journey from England, it is a must for Tanzania to defend those countries because it wants to take it to the plane there," he said.
He also said that another area is the area of air conditioning where two countries can be filled with war to do its journey in some of the countries due to air transportation, but the delegates of the council wanted those airplanes and requested even to be given time to remove those planes.
Doctor Barqat Mvungi who has been the director of the air transport sector in the Ministry of Transport, explaining that the victory of Tanzania said it has a great meaning to the air transport sector because it gives an opportunity to the country to strengthen its air transport sector.
"There is something that can be brought in a certain region, if that issue has benefits to the country to see your region that you came from, you are a leader that is on the front line to encourage the members approve the issue," said Doctor Rufji.
ICAO is an United Nations institution that was started in 1944 because of managing and controlling the transport sector in the air sector and is made up of 191 countries.
The report that was given by the Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA), explained that Tanzania was represented by the Ambassador Ali Amani Karume, who is the minister of infrastructure, communication, and transportation of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar.
