Entrepreneurs that are called the SIDO show.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published in 29th September 2016.

Entrepreneurs in the country have been advised to come out in large numbers at the exhibition organized by the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (SIDO) to improve their products and learn ways of improving their products that they make.

The executive director of SIDO, Professor Godius Kahyarara has said that the business exhibition for entrepreneurs has a great importance since it gives a unique opportunity to learn and also look for products of products.
"The regional exhibition organized by SIDO have been forced together with many entrepreneurs, including those who come from the neighboring countries, which comes with different products being satisfied and solving the construction in the exhibition," said Professor Shivji.
While speaking yesterday in Dar es Salaam about the exhibition of the Southern Region that is expected to be opened tomorrow in Mbeya City and ended on October 4th this year, Professor Baregu said that the entrepreneurs should take advantage of the exhibitions that will involve more than 200 business people, the aim being to announce their products.
Professor Shivji said different products of skin diseases and hands will be present at the exhibition and also entrepreneurs from Kenya will participate.
This is an amount of 98 shillings to SIDO, is giving a great priority, because they sell more than twenty thousand opportunities including getting business, loans and also how to improve their products, "he insisted.
He mentioned some of the financial institutions like the CRDB Bank, NMB, Diamond Trust, to participate in the exhibition of the Southern Region which is made up by Mbeya, Songwe, Rukwa, Iringa and Njombe.
"Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (SUMATRA) together with the Tanzania Business Development Authority (TanTrade) will participate in the important exhibition," he said.
