
MASA is a responsibility to the economy of industries.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

The National Examination Council of Technical Education (NACTE) has reminded that it has a great loss about the fate of technical education in the country, especially during this period in which the main agenda of the nation is to build the economy of industries.

Those have been said yesterday by the Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Doctor Leonard Akwilapo, while launching the council of employees of NACTE, Dar es Salaam city.
He said that agenda will be taken by that council as the criterion of testing the performance of NACTE.
"It is my hope that all the members of this council we have launched today (the day before yesterday) will recognize this and give a great contribution in the development of the nation and to achieve the agenda of the country to have the economy of industries," said Doctor Akwilapo.
He said that for now the world economy is run in the basis of the public market and that the education sector in the country has not been left behind in that.
"Even so, to a large extent the provision of education in our country is still a service.
Therefore forced to be careful in managing the operations of this sector, by considering ethics in order to eliminate the controversy.
"TOKIU" does not depend on availability of technical education, do not be taught by business people who want to control our education system and your expectations is going on to be the provision of education with a high level of training, "he said.
He emphasized that the council of workers will not have a reason to avoid blame about the existence of that situation (NACTE) that is doing its activities for 15 years now, it started the process of creating a council of eight years ago.
"By recognizing this, I would like to take this opportunity to commend the Council of NACTE and its management for the efforts to make sure that the branch of the workers of TUGHE is opened here and then set a council of workers," said Doctor Akwilapo.
Chairman of SHIWATA board Stephen Mlote, mentioned the responsibilities of the council of workers to be together with involving the workers of NACTE in the implementation of its activities in conjunction with the leadership and other responsibilities, to advise them on the efficiency of work and steps that were taken and ensure that services are given.
