
Opposition, Doctor Tulia Ackson.

June 2, 2016.

Members of parliament from the opposition camp in parliament have started implementing those actions they had promised by continuing to boycott the parliamentary sessions that is led by the deputy speaker, Doctor Tulia Ackson, on behalf of not having faith in him.
That situation continued to parliament yesterday morning with members of parliament to boycott the session after seeing that is led by the deputy speaker, Doctor Tulia Ackson, with one statement outside the Parliament hall promised to continue doing so.
During the session yesterday, the spokesperson of the official camp in parliament in the Ministry of Finance and Planning, David Silinde, entered the session during the opposition time to read their speech, he urged his speech to be unable to leave at the moment.
"I will be able to read my speech because we have faith that you are the deputy speaker, because when you run the sessions it makes it like small children," said Silinde and then went outside.
That member of parliament is called to read his speech, he went outside one and did not want to stay again inside the parliamentary hall.
After that, Doctor Tulia Ackson, known as the first lady who is a member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Peter Serukamba, while inspecting different areas, but the parliamentary regulations explained openly that if there is any member of parliament that he will have any decision given by the speaker who can appeal, "he said.
Doctor Tulia Ackson, "if you are seen, when they are seen, the procedure is not following, there are procedures of following the regulations, they give permission to prevent it and any decision by the speaker.
"Members of parliament decided to read the regulations well that someone can appeal due to any decision and in a session to discuss this issue or deputy speaker will not be allowed to be the chairperson but he will be elected for another person."
At the same time, the opposition camp in parliament is determined to vote of not having faith in Doctor Tulia Ackson, for what they claim is that whenever he led in parliament, he was called Makabe.
That statement was issued yesterday by the leader of the camp, Freeman Mbowe, while speaking to the press at the parliamentary grounds in Dodoma town.
He said the big problem of the 11 parliament is the deputy speaker, several times the parliament are proud of because the parliamentary plans are going on because the issues are going on well because of the existence of Doctor Tulia.
"We talk about the agenda of not having faith in him and in lack of faith in any day, where this assistant will be in the seat we will find out politics even out of parliament, we can do politics even out of parliament," said Mbowe.
"I request that we need to understand that we do not want to respect the presidential seat, but we should know how to respect and respect the views of members of parliament, those regulations are not able to cross the parliament they do that," he said.
