125 houses are unsuitable for Kagera.

It has been written by Angela Kizigha, Bukoba.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Kagera, Salum Kijuu has said that the investigation is going on about the effects of the earthquake which occurred in that province on September 10, this year, it has revealed that 2,071 houses have collapsed and 125 houses are not supposed to live people and more than 100 houses need to be avoided.

Moreover, it has been known as nine billion shillings are needed so as to build and improving the residential areas of Kagera province that were affected by an earthquake.
Kijuu said that is also the chairperson of the provincial disaster Committee said that when he was giving a report to the national security committee in the office of the prime minister led by the minister of state, policy, employment, and disability, Jenista Mhagama in order to know the development of the ongoing operation.
"Up to now, the assessment has been revealed, where we decided to give a share we had planned since the beginning of every household to be given five bags of cement and 20 iron sheets to make this success so that the victims can be paid all over nine billion shillings," explained Kijuu.
He said those statistics are residential areas of citizens only, buildings for institutions such as schools, robbery, mosques, police stations, clinic and prisons stations have said that one schools like the normal state is needed for 45 billion shillings.
He said that until now the donations continues to be received, and up to September 18, various equipment have been received by the provincial disaster Committee that is worth five billion shillings while more than 663 shillings have been put in a result of disaster.
Furthermore, he also said the fundraising that took place last week by directed by the head of province, seven million shillings were found with a promise of 700 million shillings.
In another step, the ambassador of Kenya in the country, Ciara and Ali this year, has handed over the donation of various equipment valued at 100 iron sheets, 200 desks for behalf of President Uhuru Kenyatta, and explained that their citizens and their government have been touched by that incident.
We remember the Teacher Julius Nyerere did not make sure that all the human being are brothers and Africa is one of the human being and congratulating the government of Tanzania to improve the road infrastructure because they traveled by roads from the beginning of their journey up to Bukoba without any discomfort.
At the same time, education officers of secondary and primary schools in Kagera province have been given three days to complete the correct reports of buildings that were affected by the number of students that were affected by the earthquake while being keen on the provision of information of the incident.
The Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako, said that when he visited schools affected by shivered and caused the buildings to remain in the district of Misssenyi, Bukoba Municipality.
Those schools are Nkenge County, Chau primary school, primary schools which are in Kibaha district, Missouri together with girls' secondary schools which are a school of special students with different disabilities located in Bukoba Municipality.
Professor Ndalichako said that being eight days since the occurrence of that accident, the education officers had been giving correct reports of buildings that were affected by the ones that are very humiliating.
"These reports are made as usual, keenly you are required to know that, within three days you must get reports that have been identified well and those of their studies at the time those schools were affected and other schools are being dealt with in other schools.
