Stern measures have signed an agreement with the construction company of solar energy and therefore a small vehicle for the construction of the Kilombero bridge and three two hundred thousand shillings while speaking to journalists after the signing of the agreement on time and the government will not be ready to support the contractors.
And because Honorable chairperson, I request for him to explain the committee of defense and security of the province.
My sun will help as to help.
So as to do the contractor to look for giving excuses that he has failed to implement his responsibilities because of you.
Because many times the Tanzanians are seen to do that today in the afternoon so that he can't know the oil.
And when I join us and that is why they have come out and see.
During the celebrations without contractors.
Do you recognize the lot of money that are being done by the government for example to take the road fund this year to look for more than four hundred billion shillings.
We talk about us in all projects.
Using the money and the road fund is good for the projects playing.
Our expectations is to enable Tanzanians to get communication in all programs of the year construction of the river bridge.
The construction of the Kilombero bridge with a length of three hundred and four hundred thousand shillings is expected to be completed after twenty four months from now.
The deputy minister of science and communication, January Makamba has explained his disappointment with the current procedure of holding various mobile phones to invest in urban areas, while in rural areas, while opening a easy communication meeting in the villages and said that discrimination is needed to implement their responsibilities, "said our reporter, Joseph Masikitiko who had gone to report.
January Makamba.
The international meeting to discuss the system of distribution of communication services in the villages by using easy technology which will be held at work hard to be the guest of honor in this meeting, the Deputy Minister of Science and Communication, January Makamba who has shown an amount of phone companies will enable the service and communication technology to continue to meet the needs.
There are a place where.
In a draw of your goal, where I don't know what they need to follow up on the board.
And I don't release that Patrick.
If you go to Grind.
If you are or I don't know the lot of anything that was not seen, you don't like looking for your rights and it is set every person.
To be taken after that.
He has said that the government is looking at the possibility of giving grants to phone companies that will provide information with the villages.
It is open.
I know you have eaten.
The chief executive in the fight to anyone, the author has said, I don't know communication in the villages, use a easy technology that will be a savior in the development of the country, the aim is that we have never happened and your third needs a goal and you can't understand that, something is normal.
Three.
They have not arrived or in a day.
All of us to get to contest, you will give you a big events of today that the bad woman maybe I will be.
Because the size of the cost is yes, it has been Joseph what happens in Dar es Salaam.
