
President Magufuli has paid 1 billion Tanzanian shillings.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

I was published today May 11, 2016.

The efforts of President John Magufuli in the presence of non-governmental institutions in the government, caused them to the East African Community (EAC), including preventing the journeys that are not a must in that community which has enabled to save more than 1 billion shillings.

President Magufuli is the chairman of the East African Community and promised to take action of blocking non-communicable diseases and was required to remove the directors of EAC after being elected to hold that position in March this year in Arusha town.
The secretary general of EAC, Ambassador Liberat Mfumukeko, said yesterday here in the city that the efforts of preventing non-communicable diseases, have risen to 1 billion American dollars (2) within a period of three months starting from May to August this year.
Speaking to journalists for the first time since he was presented in that position in April this year, Ambassador Mfumukeko said that amount of money was to be used as a result of breaking trips to servants and executives of the community in that period.
"The implementation of the discovery of non-infectious diseases are expected to save five million American dollars for this financial year 2016 / 2017 and we will also give these information to East African people every time after time," said Ambassador Mfumukeko who is the fifth secretary of the EAC.
About the success of the implementation of various agreements for that community, Ambassador Mfumukeko explained that the implementation is ongoing well together with various challenges that came up.
He said in the implementation of having stations for inspection of goods along the border, 10 centers that are implementing that inspection is successful and reduce the cost of doing business.
"As a result of those stations to start working, right now transporting cargo from Mombasa up to Kampala, it takes four days instead of 20 days of the previous days, an issue that will help the intention to reduce the cost of doing business," he insisted.
Since he came to power, President Magufuli has encouraged the loopholes of bribery including reducing foreign trips as well as removing various foods with an aim of blocking their expenditure and making sure that everyone is involved with fruits in his country and to restore honor to the public servants.
