

Michael Maurus and.
On the 19th of April, this year, the former secretary general of the United Nations (UN), Kunzugu Ward, gave a call to leaders of the African Continent to build a culture of releasing power when their time will expire.
The leader who has the great reputation, more than its efforts to look for peace in various nations in the world, he said this in his speech he made in Addis Ababa city, Ethiopia.
In his speech to the leaders of the African nations, Abdulmonem Annan, he said that the action of the leaders failed and insisted that the action of the party will help in opposition parties which are clear that they have been able to fight for a general elections that can cause violence among the nations of the continent.
The most popular businessman in Africa and his girlfriend said that changes in government through the way that are not constitutional decreased by a large extent in Africa, it was seen to some of the political groups, there have been an obstacle to the development of different nations.
I think Africa has done well, at least now, the changes of the leader by using the military force decreased since it is not completed.
If there are there, we have remained in their homes, but we are trying to make a situation that will enable them to abandon that concept.
If there is a leader whose leader who will go to power, if a leader will continue to remain in power for a long time and elections is taking place but as "young man" so as to continue supporting him in his office for a period, that action can be used in power to release the army.
That speech was heading to target some of the leaders who were in power for a long time, one of them being the president of Uganda, Yoweri Musomba who has been the leader of that country since January 29th, 6.
President Yoweri Museveni who landed in the period, won the election of this year that was caused by 6075 percent of 75 percent (5, 617), an election that brought together with 340,537 votes (3, 270 electoral college), a election that brought together voters with the intention of voting.
Sierra Leone, the government of the president Ernest Sengelema province, will complete his term in the year 2018 despite claiming that it does not have a plan to remain in power, it seems to be the presence of campaigns from the country, it seems to be "citizens' to continue claiming that Ebola has shaken the country.
Already the government has given a statement that if the constitution was to come to parliament, it will not recognize the requirements of the citizens, as it happened in 2001, parliament passed the first term.
The speech of GPFTZ has also been seen as the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) where there is no need to take place in November this year as required by President Joseph Kabila wants to add a third term contrary to the constitution since the year 2015, the government has already added that elections can be getting for four years up to the year 2015, more than three years are supposed to be done.
