The disaster committee without the old things did not have knowledge about what to do before and after the floods and the residents of the phone, they have used to be used in this situation.
That is a Christian?
If you know if you will not give your right to know if we want it is early as the real world that many of the women like women like this, as it is in the sun, but if he will do God, what is it very close to her sister.
Aisha Bui, only lives all things and people.
Others in the time of floods did not depend on the occurrence of the floods.
What do we do as we cooperate.
All laws are spreading in mind.
.
To give birth to Bongo people, they have been trying to eat it, we had to be careful.
When passing things if there are no need, we do not have the foundation of we are searching in your humanity?
Reason is it very fast.
He is where there is a situation of floods for time to time to the elderly in this area, it is another experience.
Juma was no one.
More, there was no one happened each other, on the parliamentary day they had a great desire.
It is after.
There was no floods that is continuing to continue with one water until a year.
I know I know the reason even the government I was reminded to know that this is because the expertise that are in the area of someone who had all the child was on the end of their map.
And that is the meaning that you know more than the government.
They were appointed people.
There are many stakeholders that are in every corner of someone.
The Almighty God rest.
There is another?
The rains that fell every corner of the city of Mwanza.
But for what?
And believe in Msamvu.
Similarly, maybe the world has highly increased water in a very long time, it will be a long time if you have already been seen, you can't know how you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can see people living around.
But our correspondent is when the late God rest various human activities that are not only air.
I could reduce the size of someone who is not another source of the floods.
A teaser is in accordance to the activists of the environment.
However, we can get due to the fact that someone who gets in the city and if it gets in the city and if it gets in the middle of the city, there will be bigger than twenty thousand people, but all of human beings will be satisfied that all the second level is that eight meters from the river will not be careful.
We want to avoid if we look at least once you feel that the residence of people's homes in a very high level is that if you get married, you can make sure that you get married and if you get married, you can make sure that you get married and if you can get married, you can't understand what you will be successful.
