There when they have donated higher education graduates in technology in the country will benefit from a long-employment plan that is coordinated through mobile phone and a person and the World Bank, the plan that will enable them to be self-employed in the private sector and the nation's economy, Grace, the fund has prepared for slavery.
In the growth of employment, there are entrepreneurs from African countries participating in the meeting with the minister of communication, science and technology, Professor Makame Mbarawa who is looking at it as one of paying for a solution to the problem of employment.
And the government.
You will start getting our downfall.
First.
To give them.
Doing work.
So as to make sure that why do not know what is going on in the Bible I believe that they can start from?
The Director of the Commission of Science and Technology (COSTECH), the coordinators of the meeting, came to entrepreneurs if they were not involved with the experience of how to produce quality products from the participants of America who have the knowledge of.
To ensure together.
America's ambassador in Iran, says the partnership between his country and we are starting this city in technology issues due to the current system of development of film stars in the country, business cards, urged the entrepreneurs to expand their markets in rich countries in the world.
He has asked him.
When our house people from America are saying that we believe that it will continue to cooperate in issues.
How are important things in our development, there are people who we are and you are in making sure this issue I succeed in anything?
.
The commander of opposing the second government would like to ask entrepreneurs of technology in Africa that the program and your education and build a business network so that you are able to continue economically.
The issues of science and technology at the moment is very fast whereby the countries that are continuing to make quick changes in this system wanted the fund to have.
