The ten and one parliament like it is not seen well in your activities to the extent that people have the need for people with the citizens they want to hear from you especially through what we start.
You can be Ukawa bro.
In this media houses.
If you were able to live alone and others hope.
I don't know how these networks like all people you're welcome there.
But when he arrived there they went to see the television news from the morning until night, that is the little they want.
You are forced to plan it is true but to try and confirm that they want all the advertisements and if there are many news, I see some of them have increased I wanted to ask questions, so as to help but also the cost is high.
To choose it is available on water in the villages.
As a result of announcing the parliament we believe that we do not know that we will do that it has not been opened up even though the changes in this and but I believe it is normal as usual we change each other.
It is now a place.
I hope you have forgotten the whole country to support my condolences, Mrs Mkora you, that we have enough challenges that we have a lot of money for the side.
Therefore, he said that it is not something without a small cost we have the challenge of themselves.
What is it?
Others will also be in the camera.
And hypocrisy know what I know in their language.
When you get to us, you have heard a place where everyone of the small youth have been seen to see the leader like the parliament are supposed to see the community even when we consider the society and in this, there are some important things that we see that there are some democratic issues in the parliament.
Leave it not even a bit.
If we will start common for our workers in the same time we sat at the studio to make laws to take our activities following the previous day, when the government was forced to allow God to continue with the same time, Samuel Sitta will lead us with the other streets then he will end the parliament to return to the parliament.
She was a terrorist?
Vehicles from my heart have tried to get a period of my teachers and others say Ruvu.
Said, how will it be?
B should be a high table is a criterion of.
There were his work performance and he has been very close to them.
As it appears to be full of members of parliament but also the chairman of the committee in a session of the leadership committee here in the stations that are going on how to go with the constitution, I was the chairperson of the eighth committee because he knew that there is a leader to sit with him and in a period of the country, a leader is to be a leader to sit and work.
Having punctures, I know that we can change the meaning of the meaning.
In certain areas, even if you are very few but the possibility of doing the players at the time we were.
First I want to listen to the fifth use of the location.
We should vote?
In that meaning, the cost that you help them to do a great reason because it is a must for the killing of voting.
Therefore, if you are still there is no school we would like to use it even through the internet.
And on that meaning, they know whether they are getting a lot of news through you, and so I am looking for you shortly they saw and they are there.
And on that meaning, you can choose the news that you want to read it and look at the television where the iron sheets will enable you to follow it, therefore the networks sell it in a place so we thank God and I want it to prepare.
We should talk a lot of know that we want to make sure the father and service to the parliament who depend on us we will arrive us with the intention of improving so as to look for areas that are being employed in some areas.
To continue providing better education to some of the areas so that we can be able to have more servants, we want him to write any progress of them.
Even if you have not been touched by all that, I was going to go down here in our parliament and if possible even when they were present close to her body, he will have advice to the body from Dodoma city, Philip Karen, but effects of money.
There is a long time?
Or deal with another changes that they will know there.
We know we want new constitution and so in which we will be given a new constitution, then we will be given a new constitution to be a fact, if we will be informed that we will work to write the parliament to have great hope.
