Welcome him close to our article of discussion and on today's article, join me, I will be able to return to me with the youth.
These topics that we have emerged about it is that means that can be used in helping the youth to avoid the sexually transmitted infections which are required to help the youth to avoid sexually transmitted infections which are needed so as to build the youth to avoid evil deeds that are supposed to say anything.
The private way to make the youth be able to make the youth be able.
The youth to avoid the sexually transmitted diseases broke down.
Starting to start.
The stations.
Listen to the youth.
If the human beings are in a very fire when you started the youth stations and there is a game of football playing soccer and things like it.
Similarly, through those stations the first to get education to learn using computers they do not know entrepreneurship, it does not know that a youth step is to fulfill our actions, you know what he didn't have.
And?
And that is why the big number of huge number are forced to do when you go back to the era of what we are, why is it a very good daughter 'that you will get in this business so that I don't have money to be able to keep.
In life, I am not seen, then your own way is a way to do what should I do so I will help ten people I think about.
So, the youths who therefore, therefore, those stations will make these youths be able to study themselves, they will learn technical issues on a certain way that he will help but also together with how to start the clubs.
I heard there was a seminar.
For the purpose of teaching the youth from.
Diseases which for that offense, when I talk about that seminar will be in the war that I will have a lot of things if you will have a club for example, if your candidate did not like, if I participated in different games, I will be easy even if I get to the government to help them because they collect them.
It will help them.
Your are learning education.
Learn more keenly to learn about different things but the youth like your youth alone, can you go to cooperate with your colleagues.
However, the government wants to be supported.
It is difficult to tell me you today to go for the private bank to go and go for someone who has no ability as a number will help a loan when he wants to do that business.
A very difficult time for reasons?
But poachers in the group.
The government gives.
The loan so as to make the young people have forgotten your success.
Marriages are early issues of AIDS.
It does not look at a sexually transmitted infections because it is drought and many at this time there are many street children like a girl.
What can try to prevent us.
It is very possible that I have been called the mountain for my opinion polls that you have ever been used in helping the youth to avoid the sexually transmitted diseases including the funeral, the burial is expected to build the youth in science and such actions be the first.
We need to work on the side of youths in the moment are different from the old youths.
Upbringing which are there in the current community is not like that.
How is this day.
Many youths are.
They are getting early marriages or so as to talk about that many youths were going to go to the hospital or at homes where they are being affected.
And if you check the education they won by many youths we can be losing these days, children are happy to sit with their youth so as to provide education about the upbringing concerning the community on how many parents know what you want to pay for AIDS?
Ras Makunja looking for you a lot of her daughters in there you meet a girl who has not given a child.
However he wanted to go to school due to the problems of here and there to be a girl because he lacked the education he is supposed to help these boys and if you can be able to help these youths so that we can be able to help these youths so that we can be able to help them because we can be successful later but we can be able to help them because we are able to help them.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we will go to Dar es Salaam.
These boys are able to get diseases from AIDS.
There is a game.
By playing the last game you can be looked for him by Catherine Mari.
Sports in primary schools?
They have been selling you.
But later the child that was found came from.
Now after getting married if it was already lost.
You are using fuel used to play or you want to play.
The other things are still seen, he did not expect a game.
They should say the players that are the caravan.
We will get drugs for drugs that were smoking cigarettes and drinking alcohol and are inspiring.
To get pregnant in the economy, it's the boss, our Tanzanian government is only there and there are some who are playing.
For the amendment of the whole country, I will continue learning in education and agriculture and everything that are there so that we can be patient during this time I don't know that, then I don't know which the game should be a scholar and I remember.
While he was not born after he was found.
By touching the music step that the girl got pregnant will give birth.
There was a place.
They are giving birth to the government in a level.
Small laws that for anyone has been found.
Not to prevent them.
Years of age.
Behind the students of universities to bless you.
Therefore, they do not lie!
I would have clothes.
Sections of the Provinces.
Famous as well in.
Different times, it is two times tomorrow pieces of the sun does not lie with one child.
Because.
And they have said that the government to release a girl has got a chance to go back to the school, where most of them are unable to go back to school because these banks can be able to help these students who are studying in primary schools.
Most of the students that are studying in the ward schools do not receive a lot, if you find the student comes from the school, maybe if you get the shortage of ten-five years now, if you find the ones that are studying in that school, you know many youths or their daughters are treated.
The late God rest his things such as others who try to arrive at home quickly or the school so as to avoid evil deeds so that they can be able to get poison so that they can be able to get married so that our youth have said to get pregnant in some of them.
Ten years five minutes.
It has also been said.
That is not where if not going to indicate that we did not see why I think even the government through the committees should not meet the small laws of rural areas, the youth that remained is using those drugs, is this evening, he found it.
That's on the other side, told me that it has not been written by the love I don't think the danger of the health but at the same time the government is popular when the same time you have written the cigarettes.
It is not in.
And a big percentage are youths we should also have the efforts of looking for a child, I don't have heard after being satisfied by the guest, there are many musicians who don't know what you have been doing so that most of us do not know what you have no money because I don't leave you.
So as to sit down, he has been looking for marijuana that we have not understood.
