
The death of Aisha Madinda, an error in the controversy, Mengi emerges victorious with brothers who will take place of research.

Others have risen up! The death of who was a dance group of the African Stars' Twanga Pepeta ', "Mwanaisha Mohamed Rukara" has raised others whereby some of the close people believe that they were affected and her friend, Friday, "an issue of" you gave you more.

According to our source, Aisha Mashimba, Aisha Bui, has been supported through this needle together with her friend who police have not been looking for, it was alleged that the goal was to complete.

He was said.
Speaking at the funeral of that star, at the home where there was a cry, Kigamboni, Dar es Salaam, saddens and one who is close to the late said.

"You know the recent days, Aisha Bui, answered Yesuu like in the past, recently I met with him said he is in his friend, Mwananyamala (Dar es Salaam) but his friend who will destroy his colleague has been dain from her colleagues.

"Now it is not you know that, what is very disturbing, the fact is that the possibility is big that, the possibility is big and his fellow are the ones that took their lives," explained the source.

There is another source.
According to another source of that way, there is worried that since Aisha Bui, went to Bongo from Dubai, there is a person he has been announcing the life that he will give a soul.
That source claimed that, that star who was going back well has been receiving threats from the person without mentioning the reason.

The first day.
On the incident, the day before yesterday Wednesday, news shows that there is an increase of the use of Radio Clouds FM, Ruge Mutahaba when he was called a phone by one doctor of the referral hospital in Kinondoni, Mwananyamala and was told that there is a body of a person known as Aisha Madinda has been directed to the hospital with unknown people and he had already left.

After those reports, Jokate got the ball to the Twanga Pepeta Band, Asha Baraka and listen to the claims of the doctor.
"Asha Baraka in Kigoma province so that when he was given those information, the leader of Twanga Pepeta Band, Luena Nyambabe, and gave thanks to the news that he was told by Portugal as the truth."
Aisha Madinda is internal affairs.
It continued to be alleged that, Luena and his fellow musicians, Lilian Lihanjo, "Lilian Liundi" and Maria Mutagamba, he died in Mwananyamala and found a child known as Aisha Bui, where a child was found and allowed me to return to Dar.

The child to the late Deo Filikunjombe.
Speaking to this newspaper inside Mwananyamala hospital a short time after the body of her mother admitted to a child known as Aisha Mashimba, Naomi Godwines, he said.
"Mother was living in Kigamboni, recently, I also decided to go with him."
He continued, "there is a third day in the past, when the mother was not at home, yesterday (Tuesday), in the morning, the mother did not use a message saying he wants them to do money, I have used them.

"But today (the day before yesterday) on Wednesday, a woman is saying I am giving the one who asked the phone when I wish him there, she does not use a message and told the mother died."

My sitting sitting on his death.
The girl continued to say that, the close day, the late once called her brother and gave him a great message.
"There is a day he called her brother at home, he said in our family, I am the one that will begin in.

Questions' questions.
Up to now the questions that were thrown in the funeral is this because, it's a person who gave him to the body of the late at Mwananyamala hospital and serve the citizens?
So, his body was taken to the hospital with one person or many in which they used the transport or a good thing, it is also good for the police of Kinondoni District, Dar es Salaam city to follow this death in details.

It's and Brenda Kharono, they are self-reliance!
