Trips is best in Africa.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

The TBL Group Company has continued to shine after its beer factories in the country have won the best international awards of SABMiller Africa for the best production, while beer company is expected to be announced as the best beer in Africa.

SABMiller has been a culture of introducing its industries in different countries, the aim being to see the quality of its products.
The ceremony of announcing the industries that were sponsored by getting awards, took place in South Africa and attended by senior officials of the company of beer factories from various branches in the world.
In that event, beer company which is owned by TBL in Dar es Salaam and Arusha, was announced the best beer in Africa and was awarded awards, while the factory of Dar es Salaam is holding the first position in Arusha while taking the second position.
Other awards which the TBL factory has won, it is the production of best beer beer which has won the TBL in Dar es Salaam the first position, while TBL Mbeya won the second position with TBL Arusha in the third position.
Moreover, TBL Mbeya has emerged as the winner of the best beer competition in the year, while the second position has been sponsored by TBL Mwanza, which has also won the award of following the quality and supply regulations.
The Technical Director of TBL, Gavin Van Wijk, while talking about the awards, he urged the industries, saying that, "the private sector was huge in other industries from various countries in Africa.
He said it is happy to see the industries in Tanzania are near the award of such awards, which shows that, TBL has organized itself to support TBL and its products, while promising that it will continue to produce better products and help community projects that are in the agricultural sector, education, environment and health.
Wijk, he said, together with helping those sectors, it will also continue to be creative together with government in order to help improve the country's economy as to be emphasized by the fifth president, Doctor John Magufuli.
The Manager of TBL Dar es Salaam, Calvin Martin, on behalf of the managers of TBL factory in the country, has explained his appreciation to the success of the TBL factory in the international market.
