Makonda prohibits what to use TTCL.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published in October, 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda has called for the institutions and public organizations that are under its province, to support the Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TTCL) for starting the use of products of the company especially in communication activities so as to show patriotism in actions.

He gave the statement yesterday at the TTCL headquarters in Dar es Salaam city, when he launched the TTCL customer service week while promising to sign the institutions and public organizations that work under its administration, to ensure they use TTCL services to support the communication company in communication.
He said the government has shown a good intention to return to TTCL in a good state after moving to 100 percent under its ownership, so as to identify organizations and public institutions, to support the efforts of President John Magufuli.
He said that while being the head of Dar es Salaam province, he will ensure all public offices, use TTCL services and if they are forced to use, TTCL will give a report so that he can be interviewed because they are doing that order.
Moreover, he urged some of public non-governmental institutions of TTCL, to pay their debts immediately and those facing them were taken to court for legal procedures.
He said the company will do well in service, if the customers have been given services pay for a time so as to make it better service to all customers.
On his part, the acting chief executive officer of TTCL, Minister Kindamba speaking before welcoming the Provincial Commissioner, said TTCL started the process of bringing changes in the company since the year 2014, a plan that planned to increase productivity and success in production and accountability in order to provide better services to the citizens and all our customers in and outside Tanzania.
He mentioned the mentioned among the achievements that were found in the whole period of business change is to return to be owned by the government at 100 percent after leaving with his running mate, being involved in the range of range of 4G LTE service and the implementation of various projects to improve service.
Kindamba added that other achievements are being used for funds from different sources including the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB), that are being used for bringing communication to the villages and construction and renovation of the communication network, modern machines that are measurable.
4G is complete.
