
Don't read.
Jah 03 / 2014.

The former chairman of the Constitutional Review Commission Judge Joseph Warioba together with 20 colleagues who were part of the commission, recently met with the ethics of the process of writing a new constitution, the process that is shown or coordinated according to the law of constitutional changes.
Judge Warioba and his colleagues, although their commission had been made a officially hand with the State House by considering the requirements of the law, but they have shown a private efforts of patriotism by using their time to meet and then tell some of the people to get a new constitution which has started going to Kombo inside the special Parliament of the constitution.
Basically, the decision by any other citizen is supposed to do efforts to save the new constitution process on our part, we believe it is correct for the decision of wanting to support the process, as if we have been heard of some of the politicians, from within or outside the ruling party, the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
It is as a result of considering that, we urge Judge Warioba and his colleagues in his commission and encourage others to look for an appropriate time so that finally the special constitutional parliament should be given to them in accordance with the law leading the process of getting new constitution, but in accordance with the law leading the process of getting new constitution, but also according to administrative laws in the country that it has given enough income.
Even if a new constitution will not be able to carry all the requirements, for example, the opposition side or issues of the ruling party in parliament, but at least there is sure that the administration system in a big part will be resolved according to the requirements of that new constitution.
For example, the issue to reduce the power of the president in a good appointment is an issue of great importance that the selected ones have to be faced with another free agent and not only depending on the appointment of the president alone.
It's not only that, other important issues like the ethics of the public leaders, issues of gender issues and the citizens, issues of property and other things of the kind, all that are important in ensuring that the process of new constitution is expected to be safe by consent.
They want to save in the process of the new constitution because it is losing other important opportunities which could bring benefits to the country until when the process of such kind you will be allowed again if the process was supposed to take place for several years so that the constitution can be done for several years.
Therefore, we have said that Judge Warioba and your colleagues are not operated on, together with Wild Frontiers who are mocking him and the other words of sponsorship from Botswana which are preserved in the current constitution.
