Ras Kiduku was very disturbing recently, we are following the front line with him will be careful.
And we were asked in the same time or not to talk about the coach God?
Then, it is same if you told her, his name is that if you know my friend but it is your life in order to help if you see you.
I have lived and walking.
.
He surprised many to be that words were surprised so much he went to work.
It is one of the coaches were shocked.
But they have a strong desire to think about an issue.
Maybe by maybe, it's just a report of sixty eight days of the youth who went to report the general elections taking the championship of the World Cup final for players.
In which in front, I remember that last year he did not end last year that is Rio de Janeiro at taking the world cup.
Players from all players from all the players will be in a house to the hyena, when I started a first exercise until when I got the first class one and ten years, I think it would have been a world cup and ten thousand if the team are where we are going to South Africa with the head coach.
But team was defeated by bad luck, I would like a penalty of a penalty and when he gets only.
The same goal is that players got very much because he used the game and they made the game and they made it well as they saw the articles which we have been prepared from Africa in the southern Africa to be known as teachers.
In the fact, he is waiting for his life, but I have touched on that one has issued its founders.
He said when you see you, the journalists now is not you and the others who are looking at you have a great ability.
Jenga Tanzania participates and destroyed football.
How do you inform you so that your ractory sides in building every Tanzanian football has problems.
Now, it is my responsibility about your blog and the others to build this Tanzanian football is unacceptable, who has left us.
Now, at a very difficult time because there is now right now because he has left this young man, she writes that namo Jumatatu wakuu wa kampuni za wateja wao.
