
The chief council of President John Magufuli is causing a mistake.

The promise by President John Magufuli that he will make a small council of ministers which has built the enthusiasm to know the size of the size or the smallness of the council compared to the councils that came out of up by the councils that came out of up by the councils that came out of up by the councils that came out of up by the councils that came out of up by the councils that came out of up by the councils that came out of up by the councils that came out of the year 1961.

The council of Doctor Magufuli that the chief secretary general, Ambassador Ombeni Sefue said that the council will be announced when the time comes, already it has taken a long time to be organized, compared to the first councils of presidents who preceded him since the start of many political parties in the country.

The challenges facing President Magufuli is to form the council that will meet his expectations and this slogan of "here is Labor," and our expectations from one side and his promise to the other side of having a small council.

While addressing the parliament in Dodoma recently, and when he was in his campaign meeting of the general elections, Doctor Magufuli promised to form a small council as a way to control the government's expenditure with an aim of looking for solutions to the citizens' problems with a fast rate.

As a result of his promise, an issue that doesn't expect is Doctor Magufuli to select ministers, the number one and he started with them by his predecessor, President Jakaya Kikwete who broke the record of building a big council than all presidents who kidnapped them since Uhuru.

The council that created Kikwete in the year 2005 after getting into power, had 60 ministers, among them 29 ministers were full ministers and 31st the deputy ministers.

Against him, the government of the first phase of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, is the one that broke the record for having a small council of 11 ministers in 1961.

In the second phase of the year 1985, President Ali Hassan Mwinyi entered the power that he made the cabinet of 23 ministers and four ministers, a total of 31 were 31.

In the year 1995, the President Benjamin Mkapa started with 27 ministers and Deputy 10 ministers, a total of 37 and whom he called the soldiers.

A statement of scholars.

Analysis of issues of politics and administration have proposed that due to the current needs and efforts of blocking the expenditure, that council could not get out of 20 ministers.

The lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Doctor Benson Bana, said the size or the smallness of the council depends on the priorities of the president during his leadership period as they meet the needs of the management.

"It's impossible to have 10 ministries or under there due to the size of the country and the performance of the government at the moment but I don't see if there is need to increase more than 20 ministries," he said.

The statement has resulted in injuries and he made the lecturer of Mzumbe University, Professor George Shumbusho said that according to the needs of the citizens at the moment, there is no need to have more than 22 ministries.

He said the smallness of the council will depend on how President Magufuli will increase and unite with non-weight ministries.

"There are ministries that even in the presence of the effects that can be sent and get connected to the success," said the recommendations of the analysis goes hand in hand with the ones that were in the new constitution of the commission of constitutional changes that article 93 (2) had proposed the council of ministers not to stop 15 people.

However, the proposal claimed that it was written during the time of discussing that draft in the constitutional parliament that was planned for the establishment of the proposed constitution that had not been presented for opinion polls.
