
Commander Mpinga has said that the community still have arrested.

It has been written by I heard.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

I assure you that since it was revealed, citizens used to be used as the police or security people, invading motorcycle riders (Bodaboda) and shivered to the aim of killing them.

The issue that is associated with motorbike riders especially business people, together with other citizens, including passengers who live in one way or another they were getting problems due to the confiscation of law.
The big issue that was being affected by some of the media, including television, radio and newspapers, to make sure that the important topic is being discussed by involving the citizens, it is the confiscation of those motorbikes which sometimes are usually in speed.
Also, the possibility of thieves, the criminals or other criminals have to get the loopholes of implementing the crimes they want to fail to be a traffic police, defense, security and social security, soon when they have captured those motorbikes, they were arrested by citizens to see the danger when they are arrested, they would have continued to be given a chance.
That is because, they were close to citizens and many of them were not concerned with the identity cards that showed that it is defense and security forces, but all of them wanted to know it is a traffic police with the authority to command anything during the arrest of those motorbikes.
That step was seen to be an obstacle to citizens not only with motorcycle riders who are involved with motorbike riders like passengers, but all of them don't like crime, they don't see if you were arrested and those arrested were arrested and those arrested were arrested.
Without any objection, the answer is "there is no need" to anyone who was born on the confiscation of those people, he will be my witness the ones that were using the loopholes and maybe if there are those who lost their motorbikes through that way due to those who don't have good governance and therefore, they should be among them and make the confiscation of that patient.
I believe that there are some who had received money through that way, something that is not legal, that is why the noise from citizens had a lot of citizens to be announced.
By the good example, Commander Mpinga has seen that and explained the explanation and even to ban those people, not to kill motorcycle riders, but they did not want them to work on the road for a long period until recently, after President John Magufuli wanted the police force to be done by police and not citizens.
To start being seen by those people who depend on the back of their friend with the legality of the murder cases, there should be fear that the previous people especially passengers and other citizens that are believed to do what is happening?
A big station of breaking motorcycle riders because the works of demonstrations to get keys, while the work done by those alleged to be soldiers who are alleged to be police or not the officers of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) or the companies that shows openly that it is not the police or not the officers of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) or the companies that show openly that it is not a lecturer and not the officers of Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).
In this document, I request commander Mpinga to do your investigation so that we should not be able to leave the situation that was very close to each person.
In addition, we request that you to talk with the police of your unit to stop the eyes and those who died on their work, because sometimes the people who died on their work is the cause of road accidents due to the confiscation of them that doesn't maintain poverty and be careful.
More than that, I would like to thank the traffic police especially who are studying in a draw for their efforts to educate the roads, I have seen several times giving a warning and education so that mistakes can be given to you.
