
How a woman urged our downfall.
He entered with a man on Wednesday night and was left back.
Suzan Mwillo, Citizen Director, annamatinde @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam, when he arrived at the sleeping house to Bray, Kimara in this city as lovers, their faces and joy.
However, Hassan Ally as they welcome him in the book of visitors' strike 'and a woman is believed to be his lover, they did not come from.
He was born, Ally when he was walking, but later his colleague was married to that house of visitors being touched on a few bed sheets, his heart beats have reduced as water in an indication that he had died.
The pictures that were taken before his body led by the spider plant and which were distributed on social media networks are using the woman with a short message, while in the position below the chest, has gotten her eyes.
The author of this newspaper who went to the blast, was told that the two were received by one attendant who benefited from that house of visitors who is called Kalile Hamis on Sunday 8 o'clock at night.
Those who asked if they would have been able to get one thing for the purpose of looking for, "said Hamisi speaking with this newspaper," I understood the responsibility "there are four and six that have remained."
He said after that there they were unable to see me with a woman, he was followed by Ally so as to be satisfied before paying the money.
The person said that the woman who was carrying a pouch is in one hand with another black fund, he claimed to be in the fourth position, "he refused.
Hamisi said after that, Ally got into the form which he wrote on his name, explaining that he was coming from Dar es Salaam, then he will pay for the cost of infection.
"Siyan has put in mind the number of phone because many visitors have not found a false number," he said.
The person said their procedure of registering customers is that two are coming from there, one man, especially when the man is saying that she wrote her information on short time, "we believe it is lovers, therefore the explanation of one information is enough," he said.
He said that after giving them to them, he gave birth to soap and beans, and he continued with his activities.
Hamisi said that while standing out of a red card, in the floor of the room, waiting to get married, he didn't have a sharp object in the same time when those people when they arrived for Bray, "he said as he trying to see for a time of being involved in the incident.
His young man has prepared himself heading to Ugandans and who also had directed to do a cleanup in the fifth commandment, he felt anything.
"He asked me," you have written the hips from this room and I told the answer that it does not have gone for a long time, maybe they have their activities, "said Hamisi.
He said during his small time he has returned to clean the way he found the television was not complaining.
Hamisi said before they started falling, his girlfriend told him that he will help me the television because it was a period of customers to get into other houses were annoyed instead of the fourth position which is bad.
"At the time we have modified and I heard of the other time the Jews like a voice of evil deeds. This journey had more strength, then if a person is going," he said.
"I was told my friend this is not a normal thing."
He said that they decided to thank the defender so that he can help them to break the door and they came in inside.
He said previously they felt it was normal because they were two.
Hamisi said when they arrived outside and asked to tell the defender about the voice that he made in the center, he made the responsibility to be a woman who had gone outside a few hours ago.
"He went to him he was going to buy Vy," he said.
He said they were unable to sit with the aim of going to break the door to know what happened inside.
He said that the defender sprayed bullets by saying that inside you can be careful, but when they arrived to save the door opened up, "said the repetition showed that her sister was sent away or vegetables as a result of a black bikini.
Hamisi said that until the time the woman was still holding back, due to fear he asked the defender to defend that woman from pregnant in bed and did not qualify me, "he said.
He said that they had given the manager of Uhondo program, Elias Jengo, while suffering a lesson for the woman so that they can get his illustrations, but they did not succeed.
Deteba told this newspaper where he had promised to request for assistance from the first service expert, but a short time later Deteba, said that the phone to a member of the Local Government of Kibo Ally Ngeruko, who gave a report to the police station, Mbezi Ward.
After that time the police arrived and took the body and took it to the Mwananyamala hospital.
Until yesterday, there is no brothers that came out to take the body.
