
Majaliwa refuses the investors in Dodoma.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was published (03 / 2016.
Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has urged the investors from within and outside the country to come out to invest in Dodoma province and the government is prepared to provide land and reduce bureaucracy in the provision of licenses.

He also said that the government is supporting efforts of investors in the industries sector and to produce different products with the aim of improving the nation's economy and to implement its intention of developing industries in the country so that the nation can be able to make steps and reach the middle economy.
Prime Minister, Majaliwa said that yesterday when he visited the factory for controlling the destruction of Dodoma natural gas station here in the city and Central Bank Limited.
The Prime Minister said the government has opened up the doors for investors who want to build factories, the houses for living, to leasing as the main office, so it's not allowed to rest with another investment and the government will support them.
"It is your responsibility to invest in Dodoma and it is open that this government will support all investors who want to invest in Dodoma, those who know the government does not have good intentions and business people to know," said Majaliwa.
He said the government has a lot of business people to be prepared well in providing land and to reduce bureaucracy in the provision of licenses.
"We do not want to put much politics in performance, the big part of the promise of President John Pombe Magufuli to ensure that the citizens have a productivity to be treated with his government, a big problem has been put in a lot," he added.
He said in Dodoma the natural gas is a factory that has improved and livestock that have good honor and urged the workers not to return to Dodoma from entering and mattresses from Dodoma there is a quality factory.
"Servants who come to Dodoma have no need to leave and mattresses," said Majaliwa who moved to the city at the end of the week.
The director of that factory, Hinda Gulamali said out of 150 employees employed in that factory, those who benefit from three are experts who are foreign citizens, said mattresses from that factory have been a good market due to its quality.
He said he is expecting to start a big factory for failing to decide breast cancer which will have the ability to decide 100 tons per day, whereby this month it will be decided to cost an amount of four billion shillings.
In the factory for producing oil for making the vehicle that is owned by the investor from India, Are Dimwa, said the government will look at how to put taxes in that product that is in the country, which will not be paid taxes.
