
We are required to have a guiding fee for products, services.
Still I would like to commend the government of the fifth term by checking if the bad state of life is poor and they are continuing to do a lot so that the normal Tanzanian is starting to enjoy life in this country which are blessed with God.
Most of the eyes, ears, and we have never happened B as the issues that caused the scientists to be unable to protect themselves in their country and to a large extent, people have discussed corruption, theft and not responsible.
An issue of putting a guiding fee in school fees, oil energy which was there since the past, and other areas, there is an aim to arrest the contractors.
The government is saying that according to the importance of the concerned products, the traders can prevent any price that and customers depend on them, so as to prevent us to eliminate the price where they make them even if they sell others.
I recognize that we're on a free market system where the prices are required to be used by the power of the market to be responsible for the availability of products in the country but still the requirements of this system especially in the side of the customer.
There are problems in the availability of information, there are still agreed in the planning of prices in the professionals so that the competitive market is not in place.
More than the interest of most of those who because of that reason still need media to make sure that professionals do not want, "many buyers.
The government cannot do that in every product or services, but it is required to do that, that is putting a guiding fee in every products and services which are facing a big part of the community.
Sometimes it's difficult for the government to encourage citizens in matters that are made, to put up a guiding fee because of a big part in the government they have interest in those areas.
It becomes a problem to put a guiding fee for buses because of big reasons in the government and they have their buses, it's difficult to put a guiding fee in the school because they have their schools, therefore it becomes successful.
I have taken this issue in this column that I believe that in this government at least the system of addressing issues is different and that the interests of many citizens are put up on the interests of the few people.
By considering that I request the government to fulfill the eyes and put a guiding fee in two areas, the cost of mobile phones and the cost of planning house or room.
The communication network has a great contribution in the development of this world, thus having mobile phones is not a bit, but it is a must you like a person you want to go ahead.
Issues are happening at a high speed, therefore the farmer is a business person, all the employee are required to have a way that they will be able to get quick reports and sure everything they will be able to compete in this big competition.
The use of phone in that phone is a must for sure that the phone is a must, you are forced to accept to be affected by phone companies that use the opportunity to increase their services to the way they need them.
My work I heard this day I urged them to enable them from my phone through the Tigo network and I got 2,250 million as the cost of giving those funds, the cost is very high.
If I am at least I am happy about corruption, you complained so, I don't understand the low-income people will take them.
If this is to inform you, the same time for free will be to inform us on a high level.
"I come up," the free day they had been made to identify they were reduced the talk time for every shilling that you pay for their talk time.
When those days they announced that service being free and the talk time are reduced, therefore I don't see if there is justice to continue to compensate them, if it is not a reason why the buyer was able to solve this amount when the level of service is what?
Here we need the government's body by giving them an increase in costs that are being paid for their services which are necessary, they consider many and have a contribution to improve the lives of these diseases.
Another area that retailers are for me the price that they get in, even if they sell the HIV virus, are in the business of living.
The owners of the houses that increase the cost of houses to house or room to the day before yesterday is doing every Tanzanian to build its own house.
First, it is impossible for every Tanzanian to have houses especially for those who start being independent.
Others should be given an opportunity to invest in digital business, others at the tailor, they want other primary schools to need services in other areas.
These they will not know if all people they will continue to build themselves as our systems of pension funds, it would have been good then I would say because others are no part of building completely since their pension fund will pay shillings.
Because our pension system is not another area which traders are able to learn the price that they get in, even if they sell the HIV virus, are in a business of living.
Therefore, a person need to have a house of living with you when it's at the age of failing to conduct their income to pay taxes for paying for the houses.
When we read it, the truth is that we are still continuing especially in urban and others are employees and there are some business people who don't have the ability to build their houses themselves because they are still a big level they will continue to plan.
They should not have a house freedom to plan the costs they have heard, there will be able to inform many those that the support of the government is needed to inform them with different houses to the price that they are able to cater for their houses.
