
The new social media network, TCRA has given a statement and instructions in phone companies.

The Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) has given a statement concerning complaints from users of mobile services in the country following changes to communication technology.

The complaints came to come after some of the phone networks reduce the size of the data that she got the phone user when he gets more talk time, drinking and data for the picture.

Some of the networks have been offering 8 hours, which for normal use is very small.

"TCRA has praised the program of 'smartphone - new charges and discovered that we should come out some of the service providers have changed the prices, in general a period of time to talk to the number of messages, it did not change so.
Even so, there is a huge shortage in the number of data officers (MBs), "said the Executive Director of Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), Professor John Nkoma speaking his report to the press that was released today on Tuesday.

Through article 5 of the regulations of charges (EPOCA) through the year 2011, TCRA has urged phone companies to submit the communication authorities in Tanzania and the new costs they want to cater for their customers before it will start using.
He also urged them to review the price and new charges by considering those recommendations and presented to the authority as required according to the regulations of EPOCA in the year 2011 about charges.

"TCRA has ordered service providers to ensure that any changes are implemented very little and not by suddenly in order to avoid sexual violence in the market," he said.

"TCRA has ordered service providers to give their customers the opportunity to choose a program of different ways to services they need to miss the package of talks, messages and internet service, seven days or a month which gives the user the freedom to choose an extent that they are ready to pay for talks, message and internet."

"TCRA has advised the users of communication services to choose which is with a plan of charges that is good for their use.

"The users are required to claim a full report about the services offered, to understand the reports of the service providers about the price and charges, including the criteria and conditions of service.

"The user does not think about the service he did, he is supposed to get the first priority according to its service provider and he doesn't understand and solutions to present its complaints in TCRA," he insisted.

"The users are advised to take advantage of the modern communication market in the country as an opportunity to compare the services and prices of service providers which oppress children before deciding to join any service or any service.

"Users of mobile phones that enables the use of many services, popularly known as smart phone," be keen during using them and ensure that they are able to use data even if the time they do not use data. "

In another step, that report has given statistics to increase the use of phone and internet use in the country in a period of 10 years.

It has said that until now there are six mobile phones, approximately 3890,656 compared to 2,2863,737 in the year 2005.

"The number of phones from the table is 151, compared to 154 countries, IV in the year 2005 and the internet users have lost its services up to 11,010,00 Tanzanian shillings in the year 2008.

"At the moment, there is a great desire to use the internet and its direction, it will continue working especially when they become an increase in social networks that helps to provide internet services by the increase in social media networks," he said.

"Customers who bought sim cards which are using phone services by talking to 91 percent from three million (3,000,000 /) in the year 2005 to 32 million (36,000,000) in the year 2014.

"This has enabled phone services to reach 97 percent of 23 percent where it reached in December 2014, to come from 5 o'clock in the year 2005.

"On the other side, the time to speak to a phone, it has been tested for a few minutes, has increased in line with the increase in number of users, it has reached 41 billion pounds per year 2005," he added that authority.

"The use of a message in a message, 'SMS and data also have increased in a great amount from 5 million shillings in the year 2005 to 10 billion shillings in the year 2014 with the internet users using mobile phones now they reach 10 million."
