
Diamond Amen popularly known as Wema, Jokate Mwegelo who did not want to give birth and not.

Speaking at a Live program of information that is aired by Global TV Online, the artist of music Nasibu Abdul, "Diamond Platnumz" explained how his lovers of peace who are actor Wema Sepetu, Jokate Mwegelo and the Peng el Mhanga '.

Diamond was going round after being asked that he has been announcing to love the children but because he does not have even the drugs despite having a relationship with the women who missed their differences.

Diamond Platinumz "is true I would like children but I cannot get my child without my colleague who we will agree with my colleague who did not agree.

Diamond continued to explain that the lady Peng once got his pregnancy once.
"Plain truth I would have given birth to him, I told me that she is my pregnant, I did not believe that I took it to the hospital for instance, I told her mother Tulia Ackson.

When I explained to build another second (pregnant), and after a short time, I told me that she does not want to carry my pregnancy as a person, but he says she is not supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person, but he says she is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person, "he says that she is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person," he says she is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person, "he says that he is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person," he says he is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person, "he says he is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person," he says that he is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person, "he says that he is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person," he says that he is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person, "he says that he is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person," he says that he is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person, "he says that he is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person," he says that he is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a person, "he says that he is supposed to carry my pregnancy as a

"But say the truth I am supposed to have a child.
"There is a big number I wanted to get married, everything was same, I mentioned to change his thoughts."
Question, "wanted to create who?" Diamond is called "Ah! I cannot change here," Diamond concluded.
