
Speaker of America launches Trump.
That candidate could not find out another one, while he started the process of looking for the vice president.
Washington, America, the speaker of Republican in the United Republic of America, Paul Wandili, has said that he is not ready to support Donald Trump as the presidential candidate through that party.
The businessman who is a billionaire, is supposed to win in the race of the appointment of representing that party.
However, he still continues to face a difficult time from the senior leaders of that party, while the speaker Ryan Giggs has said that the candidate is going against the basis of the party.
Ryan Giggs said that they have succeeded to know if the billionaire did not agree with their ethics.
Mwamalala said he has hope to support their candidate, and he has hope to support his appointment, but in this time he has not arrived in that step.
Trump, who has got a great support as a result of his delegation to oppose that rule, he has attacked him in a report that he made.
Trump has said that he is not ready to support the agenda of Speaker Makinda, maybe that later they can work together and reach an agreement on the interests of the Americans.
Wednesday night, the member of parliament of the Republican Party in the Senate Council, Mitawi has appointed Trump as the candidate of the party to prevent the third term of the Democratic Party.
MC Scholar said Trump who was quoted is the presidential candidate on the party ticket right now has a responsibility to connect their party to fulfill its goals.
In another step, Trump has now started looking for a running mate to join him in the presidential race to play for Trump, who has never held the position for vying for politics so as to be his vice president.
One politician who has removed early in that list is the Governor of South Carolina, Nikki who is born.
He gave a statement saying he will support Trump, but he wants the work he has planned to have now in Havana Cuba.
Fred ey said, "though I am happy that my name has been mentioned and I'm proud of the picture of great things that are going on in South Carolina, I have a lot of work to do and I have no need to be the vice president."
Trump's victory in the repeat election on Tuesday last Tuesday in Indiana governor, has condemned other party candidates of that party to marry each other.
Ted Cruz and later John as the governor of Ohio has been forced to do so, after seeing that they don't have a chance in the race.
However, they have not said that if they are supporting Trump or the followers of the governor of Ohio, John Magufuli have explained their disappointment and broke the heart after announcing that he joins his campaign to vie for the presidency.
Dilesh Solank has said, "I told the heart that he has discovered his campaign. I used to know the governor for approximately 40 years.
It's a person like as he is in his reality and I think that he is running a good campaign and I think about, in the end, his message was not seen but that is politics. "
Trump who is 30 years old has told the TTS television station that now they will find out a party and they sell people together.
There is a big possibility that Trump was prepared by his party in the meeting of July and write a new history in the American politics.
Some of the analysis of things have explained the possibility of Trump to fight with Hillary Clinton in the elections that was planned to take place in November.
