
Ocean Road organization is wrong.
The Archbishop of Shangwe should be remembered, The Citizen is healed?
Dar es Salaam City, the institute of cancer ocean road (ORCI) has been given a total of 3 billion shillings only of drugs that were collected from the ministry for the year 2015 / 16, a situation that is causing a loss of patients who need the service.
Speaking to the Citizen last week, the Manager of ORCI, Albina Chimela, said that those drugs have been taken to the hospital to tithes one will be taken to July to September, they received 5 percent compared to December 19 to March 10 percent.
Kiango, said the Ocean Road has ordered medicine through the Ministry of Health, by using the number of drugs they need and to submit the main medical camp (MSD), while others have been taken to the ministry which are given money for the purpose of paying up.
"We can attract 15 types of drugs, but if the ministry gives a little amount of money brought in drugs with the importance, but the cost of money is to serve many patients, because there are drugs that its cost is 3 million shillings to 4 million for a total of two weeks," said Kirango.
The level of drugs was given out according to the amount of money that has been getting married by the Ministry of Health, as a budget for the use of that institution which is more than 1000 patients every year.
He said that those drugs for cancer treatment is similar to, "they have been that they are measurable more in the hospital, therefore, making some patients to be forced to buy out of the hospital in various drugs shops.
"In all drugs we request, we have been supported, most of these drugs are found with a problem when considering its cost is big."
Said Mbango.
Minister for Health, Ummy Mwalimu when he was asked, he said apart from the 2015 / 16 budget, the ministry has a plan to ensure that the problem is unpaid by the patients who are getting drugs.
"The ministry from January this year, the ministry started to set aside 13 percent of the budget of drugs every month, for the sake of those drugs and up to now the ministry has been taking off from 1 billion shillings for the purpose of buying those drugs and that the problem will open," said Ummy Mwalimu.
According to Kirango, the drugs that have been taken to few times in the hospital include Dumu type of medicine, Jichunge.'
"There are some of the drugs like" Jichunge.'
Director of the Ocean Road Safety Unit, Doctor Msemo said despite the shortage of drugs in that hospital, 80 percent of patients who were stolen they are using radiation whose treatment is free.
He said that the problem is that some of the patients have been using all two types, because it's a minibus, and it's at the same time, while others use one of those among them.
"We are grateful for the budget this year it has thrown out for 9 billion shillings because of medicine, this will help to patients who are unable to sustain their cost, because patients have also been increasing every year," said Doctor Msemo.
Doctor Msemo said that many patients are poor and therefore it's difficult to afford treatment and cause others to go back home because of lack of money from the high cost.
"The treatment of cancer is expensive, but the government of Tanzania has been getting free for free when the patient when it reached is required to have the only radiation, but the treatment of chemicals is cost," he said.
