

By Amina Omari, Tanga.
A veteran town of Pangani that is in Tanga province has been affected by the changes in the country because of water connection in the sea.
That state of increasing water in the sea has caused the dangers of the city after a wall that produces water from the sea and the residential areas of the city, the wall was set aside for 185 and during the German administration when they appear in the area.
As a result of that town being close to the coast where they were able to build the wall together with the era of passing water in where the sea had gone against water, water were able to pass through the box until town and then return to the sea again.
At the time the reserve area of the coast region was sold and presence of cooking oil together with the desire that were preventing the speed of water in the sea.
But the destruction of the environment including buying of cooking oil has caused a big network in the Indian Ocean while being filled with water catchment areas in the sea and to get that wall.
During the rainy season, water has come forward more due to lack of any interruptions in the coast region and therefore causing several houses to Pangani District built very close to the shoreline.
Moreover, other effects that are in that town water in the sea have been able to get inside and destruction of several wells that have now being taxed for human use.
Assistant minister office of the vice president.
Coalition and Environment Officer, Luhaga Mpina, recently visited Pangani District.
To inspect that wall, he is witnessing how has been affected by the sea.
He says that they appear in the wall explained how the effects of change in the country can bring great effects to the community together with his creation.
"This is an important evidence to be the speed of human activities in controlling the environment including illegal trees so as to bring the effects of climate change in various parts of the country," says Mpina.
He has said that the government will make sure that wall is run quickly so as to increase the effects.
Save the current situation as it is.
