You do not mean?
See you like that step will be heard the government waiting for a election as possible.
Yes, even the level of pushed forward.
Ajib says that assets are about helping those assets have the same step Mister has brought so much to force a flight.
Especially especially when what is our president, you want him to live a hundred.
And so, if the leaders of the opposition parties are another what did not want to return to you so that the election issues and those demonstrations are not to live in this end, but we want it to be a constitution to say the son of Obama's president, "Express Yuksekdag.
Eastwood is a my time for the second time to lead the country and you.
We should leave you to talk about, set aside from others, it will liberate them without informing them that she has done a step to put him well and said if a very easy way it does not die there is no longer.
Now the public can download since I will eat it, I could not know what happens and it's not good.
It is good and all the peace and also another person to fight and when the constitution is requesting for the last day at ten in the month of ten and two this year, we have the right to be good for the general elections to be able to continue with the same time.
BoT has said that his constitution is saying, we will go through and security and peace.
And now, by finishing the leaders any side of the opposition side, the government has been every people with their followers to know if it is also a member of opposition leaders to be taken against them because of them.
The same way you have said that themselves as a government and him are close to our country and it's not our brothers, we are supposed to go after one of the countries itself with the disease, we have said that my brother to live in a good constitution that we said is to do you.
Therefore, we request all your life to support him and the arrest of the government they did not know because the repeat of the constitution at the end of the desert will end the constitution.
Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we are headed to the president of the country, we are going to see the first one in the year and to see that all security and peace for what are not found in us.
Then the girl has heard this delegate who is also the secretary general of the party, Evans Aveva, and for sure that have been able to be taken in different ways in the late mother, you know them if it is not the first time for the first time.
He said or not the first time America uses restrictions like this in order to explain how the country like the government will be availed.
If we can say about the way the way it is thinking of using restrictions and not only in Africa that are many matches in Africa that are not available after America and think about them.
It is to strengthen democracy and the good leadership uses a new restrictions in other countries in Asia and elsewhere in America, it has done therefore, this is not the first time and not the last time.
I love you.
We're close to Msangi, as a member.
Did you represent the area without knowing many of them and you have a step that was taken to now because of the leaders, those in Dar es Salaam would be given one of the army police officers from your opinion, due to this step you want.
Therefore, the American plan is giving them problems.
Those commanders have been redeemed by the other things, and this is also an issue of two people who are not married.
New, today I will give you a lot of lot here, earlier there are more than one hundred people who died and others have died.
I commend him that they had already started.
When the handing over is going until there are politicians who do?
We are saying that the police force and the average in that country will be easy for Raila Odinga, they are going to use the research elections in the following time.
As a member of parliament to know if you need to be taken against some of the opposition leaders also because it has the opposition leaders also said that the opposition leaders are also receiving people because if you know if the restrictions are required to be taken to leaders of both sides.
The court broke down.
Hamad, the demonstrations are allowed to have heads of leaders who do not have the cap.
The police and when it will give you the president.
So that he can come to him.
And starting to study, we have already been successful.
The international organization for putting a center.
Previously he left the recently the day before yesterday when those preparations were taken to court and the government was.
To grow.
Voting for them.
But people who traveled with the water broke down.
For dollars to do that man, the man caused many people who were expelled and they were beaten in oil every picture are producing and said.
It did not allow that to send that opportunity and women and children to be worked on to deal with the demonstrators?
That step against those two leaders and if it will change it is enough for other leaders but even if it is not enough.
That step is a must that will be discussed as Roma.
But the country.
They should take a step that I received us who are responsible for these things to be bullied.
Play down, I heard that I've heard of the opportunities that had happened for.
It is proud of those who are proud to have a fact that they are two that they had started, but not only.
