An eye among them is an opportunity and a lot of challenges that came out to Dodoma.

It has been written by Stellah Mgumia.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

Every Saturday, people from different areas, come to the Tawaf area, in the municipal of Dodoma.

This is an area that is getting popularity as a result of the auction that is commended for meat, royalties.
Private vehicles, buses were filled with people who may witness what is happening and it is the center of revenue for different people including the government of the relevant area, when it arrived at the auction, it was received by a series of vehicles that were parked along with that main road.
Similarly, a cows and goats that had already been done because they were received by entrepreneurs who their work is to receive, which have been built on trees and they were abducted in a distance of blood which is carried out for trees and they were kidnapped by the auction.
Inside you, there are seats and most of the owners are women who do business to sell drinks, different types of beer, snacks, soda, and water get through those entrepreneurs according to the meat, otherwise, it's not supposed to sit without buying anything.
Likewise, there are illegal immigrants in the world and you have ordered them to put the meat of meat (which many times you go ahead, after being beaten by customers who live with fire outbreaks that concern their customers.
In general, this auction is a link for all the people because all of them are served near the same environment as there is no special group or VIP, but all the customers are seen in the areas that can be interpreted as required by being satisfied with the environment.
This auction is the economic hub not only with meat, drinks and cold drinks, but also the local government is among the beneficiaries not to be collected through the electronic machines that are collected from the electronic machines.
Similarly, there are government tax for vehicles that are not official to combat those vehicles and be self-employed to lead them, before a car to leave, the young people did not accept to ask money that it's payments for defense, where everyone will be paid 200 shillings.
For sure the TPL Board is still a lot of events and even those creatures such as severe pain, usually don't know yourself in one table after another one for the purpose of looking for meat, there is another group of human beings that is a big challenge.
That group involve people who request famous as' request, "these are happy about the table after others asking for money even food and drinks, there are some people who use their skin or old people, including those who do not need for money.
The disease that most of the disease is 20,000 shillings and will see small children of adults or the elderly or skin disability, "another thing is yours, it is because of poverty, there are small children who have not used me or not to move in different activities with the aim of getting money.
Among the activities that will witness the children that are doing, they are being faced with bones presumed with every high table and asked customers they have put it more than 1000 shillings for people who are looking for a fox.
Those children, most of the children are usually in the chest, you know that some of the parents / guardians in order to get income.
There are some of the customers who arising from being touched by the children, what should welcome meat and soda and at the same time to give them cash money at the end of the rainy season, which is starting from the morning and when it comes from.
