While local government was alleged to have dropped, CCM has managed to win the election 2015!
Nooral 6 shillings, 2014 by Almighty God, elections.

If it would have been the country being run in religious politics, I would be forced to say that at least these days the member of parliament of Iramba (CCM) and the Deputy Minister of Finance Mwigulu Nchemba, "has been released."
His last week claims that the government is alleged and that it will pay more than 4 trillion shillings and the first one to be a special constitutional parliament not to move forward so as to save money, what makes him appear while in politics when they do everything.
Mwigulu Nchemba talking about various debts that involve the government to an amount of providing health services and other social sectors, the problem is not giving an indication that especially I have denied the payment of those debts, and how the tax revenue collection was used and how to be used by the authorities.
The problem is not borrowing from business banks and social funds - though the problem is a huge problem because the government is proud of being the economy is growing, but the problem is how the cash money collected was used by how the corruption has gotten lost in every corner, and all those that were set aside are public funds for tax collection.
And when we are heading to the general elections of the year tomorrow, the situation will be very bad in the regions where we are going right now in the government, citizens should expect to rise up in terms of life heading to the 2015 general elections.
Why should it be because it is normal for politicians who want presidential to use each sim card for the purpose of vying for the parliamentary and presidential candidate, even if they know that after 9 years, inside the State House, you said that I have gotten married I want to go back, "I went back to Kikwete's statement recently.
There is no need of more than 270 billion shillings for the purpose of improving the voters' book, the operation of opinion polls about the constitution, has been recommended by the general elections of the year 2015, corruption in the year 2015.
Apart from the recent scandal of parliament to use the public funds for paying the doubt, other corruption saga is still needed to nation and continue to stop the citizens.
Recently, Zitto Kabwe, his committee of parliament is leading the Controller Auditor General of the Government (CAG) to give information about how has collected more than 200 billion shillings through the Tegeta Escrow account, IPTL.
Right now we are waiting for the desire to see if TAKUKURU and CAG will give that report on time, and if this report will be productive because many of the few people know that it will be same as other reports that made him to the grave of our leaders!
At the cost of his bed payments at the Muhimbili National Hospital they are required to be taken to the end of last week (without doubt that another service also will go down, there are claims that the Revolutionary Party (CCM) are preparing to set aside the efforts of the opposition parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) are preparing to set aside the efforts of the opposition parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) are preparing to set aside the efforts of the opposition parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA).
There is where our current Tanzania is at the hospital where there is no drugs, at school, there are no medical camp in order to fund one new political party in order to fund the new political party in the next general elections.
That is the reason that made him view the secretary of the CCM party, Nape Nnauye, just one day after UKAWA made a position of cooperating in the next general elections, they discovered that inside the next general elections, they discovered that the issue will be availed to CCM in the next general elections, and that is the origin of looking for ways to prevent the union early.
If CCM's information is planning to set aside the party, a new political party is true (it is obvious that those involved will continue to reduce the cost of life in the important sector until the year 2015.
I am saying that because the new party will be given a lot of millions of funds that had flown from government (as it was not pictured) so that he bought the "new political party that allows him to sponsor that union of UKAWA.
