
Group of Al-Shabaab.
And Fredy Mugenda, Dar es Salaam City.
The representative of the United Nations (UN) in Somalia, Ambassador Augustine Mahiga has said there is a network of the terrorists' plan in Somalia with the aim of doing crime in various countries including East Africa.
Ambassador Mahiga said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday, at the debate of retired presidents of African countries (African Forum) which together with other things, they discuss the issue of development and security of the African continent.
Presidents who attended that meeting include Benjamin Mkapa, who was the president of Botswana, Festus Mengele, who was the president of South Africa, Ho Mbehikya said that the former President of Nigeria, Oldonyo Sambu.
Ambassador Mahiga gave his statement while answering a question by one of the people who attended the meeting, who said there are some youths who are given a terrorist training in Somalia and went to join groups like Boko Haram.
Responding to the question, Ambassador Mahiga said that they have noted that those groups have a network that causes the youth and give them training and go to implement terrorism in various areas.
"The training they put in Somalia, but there is not a area for making their attacks, they intend to get in different countries like East Africa and we have witnessed these arising from others going to join Boko Haram," he said.
After that statement, President Nkurikiye has asked the ambassador for now because it is where those groups are aimed at more.
However, that question did not be went to, after the lead in the debate that could destroy the debate by President Mahiga.
"I want to know so that I want to prepare themselves," said Happines was surprised by doing people who were in the hall he fell.
The issue of security and violence in various countries of Africa, was seen to be a big part of the debate.
In recent days, there have been a terrorist group in Kenya that has been linked to Al-Shabaab's group which also several times he has failed to be involved.
In Arusha province, there have been events of bombs in various parts, where the group has been depending on although it has never been involved in it.
According to the issue of economy, the former President of South Africa, Mbehikya said that many African countries have a good policy, but the problem is the implementation.
Contributing to the topic about the economy, retired prime minister of Tanzania, Dan Mpogole, said it is good for the African countries to revise the implementation of its plans.
"When I was in power we were going to participate in the meetings like the World Bank and IMF (the World Health Organization), when you want to represent other plans that we do not have something, we do not know how our plans we represent there is better," he said.
