If you go to Grind.
This means they have been urged to focus in the agricultural sector of cotton when it was started and they were started without buying friends that are available here in the country instead of importation from outside the country.
That step has been said that will stimulate the production of industries here in the country and therefore contribute to reducing the problem of lack of employment to youths which has been increasing every year.
From Mwanza before this.
More.
Speaking to the press in Mwanza town just after completing the launch of the home shop for shopping.
The Manager of Tuwalinde Watoto Wetu program said that until now, there is still being faced with a big challenge of the shortage of natural resources that are produced in this country, an issue that allows you to enable the natural resources from outside the country with the aim of producing business products.
While giving statistics of natural resources that are available among other nations, he said that the availability of people were transported from outside this country is twenty percent, which is available here in the country by one hundred percent if the farmers have shown cooperation in their agricultural sector.
Our direction is that by two thousand American dollars.
We will also have fifty percent of all products we want to see in bookshops.
I would like to hear a two hundred and twenty thousand year.
We expect that we will have heard the amount of ninety percent of all products we are producing ten percent.
Because of it?
We are at a fast rate.
We have the ability.
The experience of good products is that we have increased the market through that way because of the importance of the agricultural sector which is liberation in the employment sector here in the country, the mayor of the City Council of Mwanza, Stanslaus Mabula.
He has urged the investment to come out in large numbers to invest in Mwanza town because the investment opportunities are still needed, so the opportunities of investment if those are still need.
And if I believe every day they are continuing to grow.
Most of the generation are needed in large numbers.
These are awards of internal things but also any other others that can be able to help create employment.
The youths of Mwanza and that are outside the beginning of that first city is the ones who are leading in me, I won the same party.
At the end of the news.
