Small farmers can be taught about correct use of money.

It has been written by.

It has been published by 2 million in December.

The day before yesterday, this newspaper written news about cashew farmers in Lindi province to buy the juice and soda, from what is claimed to be sold to farmers at a huge price of more than 3,718 shillings per liter in this season of this year.

The rise of cashew prices this season since it was opened in September first, this year, results from them being sold to the auction in the southern provinces especially Lindi, Mtwara and reach more than 700 million shillings per liter.
The rise in that price followed by the market competition between the business people of that product to connect with products and thus increasing the price that will benefit the citizens.
How would you know that if it is not the chairman of the council of Ruangwa, human resource, and chairpersons of the district council and the chairpersons of the District Council and the provincial government about misuse of money that will be used due to sell farmers at a high price.
The price that will make sure that they do not have enough education about the use of finances and we support the statement by the District Commissioner for Nachingwea District, Jumaa ango, who wanted the farmers to be given education on financial expenditure as a result of making use that fell.
We agree with him for the reason, it will not get married to the liver, that a farmer can make the host, soda and juice when we see it is a good time for farmers to be given education about the use of financial farmers to remove the poverty of income which for many years has been affecting them.
They are required to use those funds to build better houses and to leave the house, improve infrastructure for their homes and to do other development activities in their environment, farmers of that product are required to change their houses, from being built by soil.
The residents of Lindi province and other provinces that produce farmers in large numbers including Mtwara, Ruvuma, Morogoro, and other provinces, are required to use well the opportunity to rise up to air crafts so as to improve their lives.
The leaders of those areas have a responsibility of giving education on how to use those funds which are available due to sell farmers, by bringing them their development and improve their lives and their families.
Various directors from the village levels, villages, district and provinces should believe that citizens know the best use of those funds, they will help them to inform them the good way to use those funds due to the mistake of getting good machines that have caused those farmers to use those funds to bring development.
