
To the Almighty God agreed.

It has been written by Joachim Nyambo and Pambani County, Mbarali.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

District secretary, Mbarali District, Mbeya Region, Mwanachoma, has said the incident of the solar eclipse is expected to happen today in Rujewa ward, this district is a sign of the Almighty God to decide the leadership of the fifth term government under President John Magufuli.

This will be the first time in Tanzania from the incident since April 23.
1977 it was claimed that the historic incident is expected to happen again in the country on May 21st, 2031.
Apart from Rujewa where everyone knows the sun for 97 percent compared to the towns of Makambako, Masasi, Mbeya, Tunduru, Njombe and Songea, other towns that will see the incident very close to 96 percent of Katavi, Nachingwea and Songea followed by Kigoma, Iringa, Mtwara and Lindi.
While speaking yesterday with the journalists of tourism and investment Tanzania (Tina), at his home in Isidore ward, he said the incident of the solar eclipse in the country is not bad, but it is same as an indication that God has accepted the administration that is in power and that's why he has given him, he has given me.
He urged all religious leaders all over the country to pray for that event so that it can happen and pass through peace and there should not be about the existence of peace that will be causing the community to give different meanings after this historic incident that will take place between 48 o'clock in the morning up to 811 o'clock in the morning.
He said after that incident, traditional elders will hold a cow as to thank God for the grace of that incident and also requested them to prevent the community and any effects that can come out.
He said that in the past children were not allowed to get out of this event, the elderly believed to be an accident on the sun and the month and those using it is human beings especially children because of the effects of various diseases, "said the secretary and added.
"But for now, we know that it is a true event and happened in our area, it is a grace from God through this incident that will lead the sun in Rujewa Town where he will get a good opportunity to learn through actions because they will know how to learn or study in books.
The teacher of the profession in Isanzu primary school, Donatha Mushi said that teachers in that school have organized students for the purpose of that incident that happened to their school.
While those on going on, some of the social services are seen to be lack of numbers of visitors who arrived in the district.
One of those services are houses to sleep at the visitors where despite that problem, some of the owners of those houses have increased the prices of planning to provide 10,000 shillings to 30,000 shillings.
Likewise, the important services including communication was seen to have problems until yesterday due to electricity generated from two o'clock in the morning until the evening, thus bringing trouble and stop some of the work.
