
The following are behavior of spokesman.
The language of body is because we can't like to use our bodies as an important mid-fielder of communication reports indicate that, even when a person is talking through the mouth, this is the language of her body through this issue, this is the thing that says, "actions have talked about more than words."
The language of the body involves many things like the appearance of the chapter, the eyes put on, as a result of the face, it was done when speaking to talk, hands and signs of the body as the time of speaking.
It is good to remind me of every time about the importance of the language of the body so as to help them to know us themselves and that the message we live.
Here I want to try to explain some of the parts of the human language that will help him to change or to inspect them in the whole process of communication through your body.
When you talk about people, use very few hours heading to you, more than very few sentences we are headed to others.
You can also be seen if you do not know your words.
Very delicious with the courage and ones that aim to target a private sector is like to show our intentions and the body is a habit of changing the spokesman, "I am happy to see you.
"I would like to speak with you.
"Sam very happy with your words.
In your talks, use very few hours and not questions, this will enable you to show that you have the courage to what you are saying and you know.
An example of talks is to use a question, "when you know how you get to our friend?"
Instead we would like to say 'I do not depend on us by this friend. "
Or other times the father refuses, "right you think who is inside here in the country," this is seen not to believe in him, "this is why I thank me.
"Right now we will not complete this service?
Another best way to ask for a question.
So, can I help you, or to do, you will agree that each other with me?
The best way to speak in very few sentences I will agree that I will agree or get assistance from you, use very few sentences or to claim that what he did not want to do or what he would like to make sure.
Contrary to it is very delicious with the blame from these words, the spokesman has claimed that when he wants, or what he did, will receive or happen.
Very few sentences I do not look at the same way you will take care or the ones you are not able to protect themselves in talk time.
An example of very delicious with recognizing, "I don't know whether you were waiting for me to speak and then you will talk."
Very delicious with blame is lack of courage to the spokesman, bad, and very few sentences I will not help any human being to change the behavior of that person who is told what they are supposed to happen.
Very few sentences I have also shown your great behavior of being cursed, and also do things not to do so, it does not like what he does not like what he does not like what he does not like to say instead, this situation does not like to say it instead of this situation.
Similarly, I commend him to vote and read the feelings of the courage and this behavior can be traditional or passport for what you do is very important and when you believe that you are very important when you know what is happening in you.
Planting, the rise, weight or the ease of voices Pickup, is how you are not involved or infuriate others, your voice will be good and what can be heard by anyone, your voice is usually very attractive, or the presence of bad luck.
You have been advised for any situation that you need to speak in a high level or an average.
If you see you, you have a certain place in the community or part of the way you do a lot of accidents, the issue of looking for you and can enjoy a bad condition and therefore the other things have done others seen as the meaning is why it was not like that.
They are following up with your talks, use very few hours and not questions, this will enable you to show that you have the courage to what you are saying.
