
The ban from the hospitals.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

The government has given a warning to the hospital and all the health centers that give the difficult conditions on the beaches of the sea and the heavy rains had borrowed, to stop immediately and those violating the directive will be taken against them.

The Minister of State, Office of the Vice President, union and environment, January Makamba, has issued the warning yesterday in Dar es Salaam city when he was speaking to journalists about missing from the importation of criminal activities that are professionally acceptable at the hospital.
He has said the regulations of the dangerous environment of the year 2009 has insisted on how to improve various crops that are in the hospital by checking the way that it will not cause effects in the environment and human health.
Also, the regulations are usually given the use of correct technology like the use of difficult conditions, which affect the hospitals and sell down completely.
Makamba has ordered the National Council of Social Security and Environmental Management (AU) to do a tough operation to identify the hospital and people those violating the directive.
"I have given one month to all those who are doing so to stop immediately because in this operation, it is found violating legal action will be taken against him," he said.
Apart from releasing those hospitals, Makamba has urged owners of drugs and international shops to make sure they use a better way to buy drugs that were given its time and to stop giving them the low level they had borrowed and who will begin in the end of the week.
He has said that recently, his office has revealed that there is a lot of deaths in the hospital and shops that are thrown out and were destroyed by the procedure they are professionally known.
"We have followed up and found a lot of drugs that were affected by the hospitals that were affected by the others that have been thrown in the Pugu area in Kinyagigi, this is dangerous for the environment and human health can't understand what we are needed," he said.
Moreover, Makamba has called on the citizens that will see and hear people who are involved in removing those drugs to give information by using a phone number 685 3444 so as to help the government and the concerned authorities to take action.
Makamba also used that opportunity to remind the citizens about the intention of the government to ban the use of bags and plastic chairs where he said by January first this year, it is banned from the use of that fund.
He said that they are in the last step to complete the regulations, therefore, he has urged non-governmental organizations, distributors or users of that fund to continue with the process of addressing the production of that fund.
He also said they will organize a special procedure for those products that are a must to use that bags like drugs.
