I'm in home.
The late God rest but I will come to Nairobi recently given what I got.
I am able to bring him only, the founder of the beauty contest, while in Nairobi, the hen that doesn't do well at this time they could make sure you get pregnant, the deceased does not see me when he saw the police.
This is a must that it will be a terrorist who believed to sell her home, to go back home to welcome him at home, the late father comes back, then I was only a lot, but it was very many to return.
Ras Kiduku was there at now, you know that we are not ready, we are just coming up with him while at his home.
While addressing you, even at the hospital he continues to look at any hospital the end of the hospital can produce that money, the late God bless you, but if we see you, I've set up a lot of food, the late God bless Tanzania and has launched you to use a red card.
The red celebration, the late does not lie in Dar es Salaam to watch the game and vegetables being bought for.
Many ways are there.
See what I do to do this expectations, or to do you go to you and like the wave.
Pharmacies as seen.
If you are.
Now you give your soul?
Then.
.
If I want to go and I was coming from everything to come to that drugs.
He got an affordable cost.
At all, you know that you must know that in Igunga, it can bring him problems from the back problem, let me know what I went to.
It is very good because that situation is bad to give them fish by good.
Eat the fish you're doing well and give them a solution is the other drugs that are outdated, they are able to forgive him from Market as they talk about.
Or there are others being sold by those people to know.
Happy, if you go through the documents.
These are the thoughts that we separated with you know that, he has gone down and you know that I will win and you know that I had gone for a jerrycan, and there is no water for this time you will go back to Garagara River before it is no water.
Yes, he doesn't know whether it's not her to find him close to him.
SA and even this hour we should help this, I have been successful.
For the work.
They don't know your mother I don't have money from you know that his things are now, I will give you a lot of money if he will still work for water and on the farm and to protect its livestock.
The late God have tried to do a lot of work, the late Adam and Denmark has explained to him that if it is now, even if you want to buy a farm which was there and therefore if you want to buy, there will be five acres where we will take care of it.
