
100 containers at the port.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

I was published today 14th October, 2016.

Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage has given four days to business people who benefited from 100 containers at the port without inspection by the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) to give information to the organization.

Mwijage gave the statement in Dar es Salaam yesterday when speaking to the press after receiving the report of the existence of 100 containers, that were given out of the port without inspection by the TBS.
"I urge all business people that they bought those drugs, to surrender to TBS before starting on Tuesday so that as soon, I know that tomorrow (today) is a half time, but TBS will put up a certificate to listen to all those involved," said Mwijage.
He said traders who will not surrendered after the completion of those days, legal action will be taken including paying a fine of 15 percent.
Furthermore, he said to all the customs agents, the ones that were involved in giving the money, his ministry will communicate with the Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Philip Mpango to see the steps of taking because the government cannot accept the game.
"We have already succeeded in games of this way and we have begun with new lives to those agents and all Tanzanians who were involved in giving out that, the agents are not involved, we request you to explain them where we get them," he added.
He also said that the effects that were offered to join TBS, but after that incident, it uses those who will be dealt with by the organization in collaboration with the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (FCC) in addition, has ordered TBS together to see those products, because those who will not be given a quality certificate without seeing the products and control.
"We do not want you to explain it is a load when you want to write a penalty but we want that it uses a story to follow up with that product in order to inspect them," added that minister.
On his part, the acting director general of TBS Doctor Egid Mubofu, said that it is good for the business people to follow up the instructions and come out and evade the fine of 15 percent.
"I know other business people have said that we are not supposed to stop the reason he will not use that product, but he believes that he can use that product and he has used that product that has not been selected and to follow the instructions he was given," said Colaso.
TBS has started a new procedure for passing the cargo that is in the country, which did not support them when it is in China for a fine is 15 percent of the value of the cargo that happened.
