Simba for high speed.

It has been written by our correspondent, Shinyanga.

It has been witnessed, 30th October, 2016.

Simba has continued to focus on top of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League after scoring 3-0 goals in the game that was played at CCM Kambarage Stadium.

That win makes a team of coach Joseph Omog to reach 32 points after getting 12 times in that team of Msimbazi, has won 12 matches and lost two times without losing one game until now.
Moreover, those results have enabled Simba under the top of the premier league by attaining 32 points, in front of defending champions, Yanga with 24 points for 11 matches.
Yanga themselves today they are taking place at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam city while Machava FC of Mwanza in another game of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League.
In yesterday's game, up to half time, Simba were leading by 2-0 goals, all being scored by new organs that were registered from Mtibwa Sugar.
Mohammed "Mo Blog has started scoring in the 32 minute after defeating the Mwadui defender following a clean pass from his fellow mid-fielder, Mwinyi Kazimoto.
MO Ibrahim Ajib by congratulating Simba the second goal in the 45 minute, that being his eight goal this season in the premier league.
The second half, Simba defeated the fire in the same minute and succeeded to get the third goal in the 50 minute which was scored by Mo Ibrahim again concluding the victory of the former striker of Mtibwa Sugar, Ame Ali.
The squad of Simba striker, Vincent Kompany has been sentenced to Mohammed Hussein.
"Larson," Method Kimomogolo and Mshereheshaji Shebe Machumani, Jonas Mkude, Jonas Mkude, Pius Mutakubwa Lungamano (46), Laudit Mavugo and Said Ndemla (66) and Mohamed R.
In another game of the Mainland Premier League, Toto Africans of Mwanza yesterday emerged with a win of 3-2 goals against Mtibwa Sugar, in a game that was played at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza town.
Toto goals were scored by Minister Chikawe, Henet Ward, Otieno.
From Mbeya, Mbeya City team has been true after emerging with a win of 3-1 goals against Majimaji of Songea in the game that was played at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya.
Yanga and today they will have a difficult time when they decide whether they get three points from Mbao FC who attacked them from Simba and scored 1-0 at the Uhuru Stadium.
Yanga themselves with 24 points after playing 11 matches, therefore they need three points to be close to Simba, which this season seems to be very fast, which will be a problem.
In other matches, JKT Ruvu started well their stadium after scoring against Ndanda FC by 1-0 goals while the only goal was scored by Atupele Green, and African Lyon when they drew 1-1 by Prisons.
