
He was unable to be a musician, but the star of a car in each other.
There is no one who is able to oppose his talent as malaria, while his work seems to be in the video of some popular musicians in the country.
Starting from its obligations like Assa, Tam, walk with me with the tender Wema, God is among the other things, it is clear that Benard Mighty One, Teddy Mapunda, one among them being treated here in the country.
And the list of famous artists who have assessed the work has been increasing every day, while artists from the beat, Willy Paul, Janet, who could be one of the musicians who have ever been able to give her a short service.
His heart has been contributed by compensation, such as Musaizi says, the first winner by Steve Nyerere, who was one of the people that voted for him in this field.
He revealed that in the beginning of peace that singer was very happy with his love to record music when he released this side, "I was happy with the work to record music because it stopped the opportunity to create a clean music industry," he explained.
In the talks is touching on his journey as one of the interest of skills in the country, because there was rumors of last year that I have a frog.
Last year there was a rumor that you gave her artist Willy Paul Paul 'song, Bahati, what did it mean?
From Kenya without doubt that those allegations were educated on behalf of the customers, it has been an important thing to me but I believe that those two were different meanings in the past, but sometimes some of the artists use their differences and they don't like charges against others.
What is aimed at putting top in this field here in the country? From Airtel in this sector that they join with fast through the internet, I make sure that I am very fast through the internet, I also make sure that I'm in work with artists with talents but also to make sure that my work will sell it itself and therefore attract many customers.
So, it has been an expert in certain types of music here in our country who need to know who is an expert in short music, therefore, I must help them to perform well in Midwives, because I have a lot of different types of music.
Your customers are most of the gospel artists, what is this, it wants to be artists of songs of the song they don't have any more opportunity.
The M-hop artist, I do work with any kind of musicians, but I would like to do my work to be easy for example, you can get one thing, an issue that I have never witnessed among the gospel artists.
If the yam seedlings come from Kenya's music in Kenya have changed from several years ago when I got into music this week, many universities have come out to provide music training and to give them many opportunities of involvement in music.
The challenges that you are communicating with we are among the problems that are affecting us because in this profession you cannot be educated about your long time.
If it is not to record music, you could do what you are doing so that we were when I were in this profession but maybe I would have put in terms of radio or television.
