
Kenya once you will fall down.
The situation that happened in the fourth president of this country.
Very shame, that has been revealed to us, with us when we go to August, and when we traveled to August August, and when they traveled to the past, they did not love Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta.
Sunnis with the were being helped by Raila Odinga, of pressuring the police force of Kenya (Kwelukilwa) in their country that their parents and terrorists of Al-Shabaab.
The followers of the South Sudan president Salva Kiir Mayardit of South Sudan's president Salva Kiir Mayindu promised that President Kenyatta wants the leader of the rebels in that country Doctor Riek Machar.
They were being helped by some Kenyans who ask for what he is continuing to save the Sunni rebels who are not involved in the war that occurred in December last year.
The Kenyans are complaining that those visitors should not need to sucks to the country's economy because they live in cinemas so as to use millions of money every month.
They don't see you, I will meet with them every day they are complaining that President Kenyatta said they have arrested their colleagues who were rushing to Kenya and to bring back to Addis Ababa city.
Humbling of them, they know that our president has taken against him, Kaguta Museveni who missed the politics of politics and to put up their hope that approximately three factors that he stopped from office is blocking the leaders of this region.
The Kenyans have a total of poverty, that life has been most expensive since Uhuru Kenyatta was elected as president.
Do not forget that there is one of the personal challenges "that is facing the International Criminal Court (ICC) which has no sure his fate will happen.
Haazu taking part of the recent events in that court that is in Moshi town to inspect, Holland, has been claimed to have Africans who come to there it is difficult to come from.
Or if I think he doesn't know the cases of General Laurent Nakula Ukunguala, and the former leader of rebels Germain Katanga was found guilty, a bad sign that I was looking for all the problems in the port, I asked himself if the president Kenyatta needs to travel outside the country.
Sihana Nkinga, I asked if you should be our president!
When I stopped the challenges that are facing him, suddenly I wanted the Kenyans who were affected and hypocrisy when they distributed two Vitz cars, who complained for the violence that it will be a mistake by President Obama not to meet him and that the leader with more strength in the world.
Those who complained to the honor that President Obama cannot meet with the African leaders more than 50 days since he decided to meet with President Kenyatta to meet with President Kenyatta to meet with President Kenyatta to meet, they are holding the two leaders in their location.
When they found himself, I will tell me that President Kenyatta is still a suspect in ICC.
It will be a great danger to President Obama in a picture and then finally, by bad luck, it's not be tough in prison because of personal challenges of President Kenyatta, Kenya has a lot of problems that are required to be announced the national disasters.
But it did not come up because of doing that, it is expecting our country has crushed in Somalia or United Republic of Central Africa.
The important step that is supposed to take President Kenyatta to take the show in Kenya, is supposed to be settling in the country receiving work, various trips for the deputy president, William Ruto.
Otherwise, Kenya shouldn't know that it fell in the Uhuru Kenyatta, is not William Ruto.
It comes down.
