I will end.
The Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has said that we are continuing to strengthen themselves in the fight against violence by strengthening its ability and by seeing modern equipment together with continuing to provide education to the community to know the importance of protecting the resources that are available in the country.
Pinda has said that in the city when they were in the city when he was speaking to stakeholders of war against corruption, Charles Elias has prepared a report.
The problem of corruption has continued to be different strategies in order to end.
Where many times it is the stakeholders of the products that met in the city of Dar es Salaam and decided to unite people together with fighting the issue, the prime minister Mizengo Pinda said together with other things, there is need of existence the international law to protect resources together with the animals from illegal immigrants.
Only.
Those are normal!
To take the bible on the way?
Ben Pol of Chama cha Mapinduzi.
Tourism is an important sector to our nation, it contributes to ten thousand percent in the national income, to make more than three hundred thousand people so that we cannot stop this sector including the vice president of the United Nations Development Corporation (not pictured), have promised to help the local government to eradicate violence.
What is a teaser?
The countries that have users of products that come from crimes are expected to have an indication of its leader to fight with that situation and to make sure that there is a international law.
In order to deal with the problem.
If you know the press you'll give you a lady of Same and the father of the field of violence.
Land means that it is development and can be able to succeed in that opportunity well for all stakeholders to talk about one language and help in fighting.
Previously the minister of resources and tourism, Lazaro Nyalandu explained to the stakeholders that his ministry will continue to strengthen its ability in conjunction with other stakeholders so that the tourism sector can be distributed by crimes because it helps in the economy of the country.
The statistics show that right now start getting one million Tanzanian shillings for a year and those involved in a nation-income, a situation that pushed various stakeholders to sign the agreement of working together so as to achieve the fight against them.
Precaution is Eliuther Monsigation.
At the birthday of Dar es Salaam.
Councilors.
