
Simba to play against Yanga.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been published by 2 percent of November.

Simba, Yanga and Azam are to arrive today in different stadiums in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League each one being three important points.

However, the game that will affect the feelings of many sports lovers is the one of Simba and Stand United that will be played at Kambarage Stadium, since Simba soccer club played there and 32 points after playing 12 games and won 10 points.
On Stand United's side, playing 13 games, has won five matches, 2 draws and lost one in the third position with 22 points.
Shinyanga team is going on well this season and has been using a big team at Kambarage Stadium, they were accused of beating Yanga a 1-0 win by Azam FC a 1-0 goal and claimed that Simba will be scored by her colleagues in those races to look for championship of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League.
That match will have a tension about its kind because soccer fans will continue to see if Stand United will continue with their dominance because Yanga soccer club had promised to win in their today's game against Simba soccer club has promised to win in their today's game against Simba club.
Speaking to this newspaper in a special interview, the head coach of that club, Athuman Bilal promised that he will sign up or leave so as to make sure they face the game.
Bilal said his team has prepared himself well but his striker Abijan, Chipata, the injured are still taking off.
The Pamba team's player, said his boys are clean and it must win that game. Yanga who are in the second position in the league's stand will have a game against Mbeya City at the Sokoine Stadium, Mbeya town.
The Jangwani team may not be able to fight for good results so as to protect their opponents Simba believed to be the top.
Yanga is in the second position with 27 points in 12 games, won 8 points, 2 draws and lost one billion as compared to their opponents with five points.
Mbeya City with 16 points in 13 games and not to be from their first team especially when it is at their home ground at Sokoine Memorial Stadium, where he has been doing the results.
The final time for those teams met at the stadium in May this year, Yanga won 2-0 goals but anything that can happen since this is another season.
Azam FC will be Mwanza at the CCM Stadium, Kirumba against Toto Africans.
The Chamazi team was not well in several games ago, but in two games, it has shown light.
Azam FC has already played 12 games, has won four matches and lost three points, holding the fourth position with 19 points, Toto Africans despite having 13 points in the second position from the end, usually, it will not accept especially when it is at home ground.
Everyone wants to win a good place in those matches especially for Simba, Yanga, and Azam FC, players who may face their own record is Shiza Kichuya.
Simba leading one leading with eight goals, followed by Amissi Tambwe of Yanga who is seven and John Bocco of Azam with six goals.
The leading team on the best stage of attacks is Yanga, having 24 goals and five goals, followed by Simba with 24 goals and three goals, followed by Azam FC that was scored 17 and to allow the 11 goals to make their goals.
Other matches which will be played today are Ndanda FC against Tanzania Prisons, Ruvu Shooting against African Lyon with Majimaji against JKT Ruvu and these teams each one.
Victory so as to live well, because they are still getting more points to do well.
