This is yes.
Hudugu Ng'amilo, 2015.

There is a saying that doesn't know that a prayerful person fail to kill more, Tanzania as a nation, has gone through a certain way, still there is a prayerful person.
Since the start of the general election campaigns, vote and announce results, together with expecting the leaders that will lead in the period of the next five years, we shall have another important examination, but it was not clear.
The big competition among the candidates, that are especially the other things raised from the campaigns of this election were making some people inside and outside the country, to start believing that maybe the reputation of Tanzania to be "the island of peace can be a shame, this nation was in a trap.
Something that did not know what those who had feelings are that this is Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority together with all that came out, the elections have a great competition but any time in the history of the country, Tanzania in a large extent has continued the culture of peace and calmness.
If we start by recognizing that you use them, it doesn't know that it is not an offense and the boundaries for protecting the geographic division that is carried out by strong winds and have continued to be patient while waiting for the official results will be announced by the National Electoral Commission (NEC).
By doing so, stem cells are not only continued to celebrate the economy of this nation, which in the only way it has invested more efforts to build a nation of solidarity and unity among the citizens of faith, ideology, and tribe among the country that this nation can withstand a prayerful person meet.
That are the ones for the international community and media stations to come up on this election, it was together with seeing if we expect to cross safely in the environment that had a competitive election in this level.
If you see the small mistakes that have come out in this election, one primary thing is that the world has reduced, it is still a situation of solidarity which has continued according to Southern Highlands.
We thank our agents to protect their honor and honor of their nation, they have shown a big offence of politics that you should be grateful and if the slogan of this newspaper for calmness, we have continued to be an example to other countries in running the election process of calmness, even so, can destroy the number of peace of the nation.
