
The illegal immigrants of children are believed to be dangerous.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

I was published today 14th October, 2016.

A non-governmental organization that deals with the environment (agenda), have asked the government to stop the use of drugs to fill the teeth that are believed to be known as "mystery" by removing the teeth of children because it affects the mental growth of the child and the system of knowledge.
The Chief Executive Officer of the agenda, Make Me Mnishi, said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam city in a ceremony to oppose the use of drugs that are believed to be in the treatment of small children in the African countries.
"October 13, every year is the day to improve the understanding of a special issue in relation to removing the use of the teeth.
Zebingwa (Dawasco) is minerals with poison that affects the mental growth of children and a system of living, even at the pregnancy of pregnancy.
It is because that organization bought a day so as to make the country to remove the use of the drug abuse and especially the children.
He said 'Ditopile,' has claimed to be 50 percent, there are no primary reasons for continuing to use the drugs because there are other drugs that are not seen in Africa and all over the world.
Mnonga has said that the international agreement of Minusma, the international contract including Tanzania in the city of reference to a challenge in Japan has urged the country in the world to reduce the use of those drugs.
He emphasized that until now 128 they have signed that agreement with 32 countries which have refused to ensure that those countries are best to make efforts that they want during the signing of that contract.
"To stop the use of the male circumcision, it is possible for the drugs that are not allowed, there are affordable prices while considering the high cost of cleaning the environment and a loss to the community which are the effects that are not seen," he said.
He said that the cost of using non-infectious diseases are believed in together with purification of the environment, it is approximately half of the drugs that are believed to be allowed, to maintain the teeth.
"We request the government to take a sincere decision to stop completely using the use of the children's use," said Mnonga and insisted on other countries in Africa to control those expenditure.
He said efforts are going on in every corner of the African continent and thus making the people to know the effects of those who are forced to go on health and environment.
Some of the countries participating in those efforts are Benin, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, Guinea, Ghana, Kenya, Angola, Senegal, South Africa, Tanzania, and Tunisia.
