
That I urge you to inform me with bad luck.
The month of December, it has reached an end when the children prepared himself to go back to the city so as to start their new term their term, they had put up their clothes and follow up with him ready for the trip which had shined in the following day.
Sheddy said there had a lot of sadness and ready for a journey to bid farewell and Mrs. Fauzia Kullane.
This evening, if I thank the Nyakahura who did not tell you the last story before going into the village of Masaudi, Mrs. I have narrated it that I commend his thing that they decided to inform you, something that made them sweating as a presentation, "a presentation," it started.
Miss Ikponwosa Ero and told three others that they did not want to wake up in the morning so as to help them in different times more than ten o'clock in the same time, but they refused to introduce himself up to the same time, "he didn't jump and told him that during the time they were unable to wake up.
It was not supposed to introduce himself and bid farewell to the defenders in the morning so that he can be able to go to the morning.
"Aubameyang!" I went back, because it is when the person will play with his freedom especially during the holiday is "he complained.
It will not be heard for a long time, it was revealed that their main problem was the one who allowed me in the morning and Doctor Neema Tawale, she got a plot to fight for Christmas and a day which was to be dealt with because, Mrs. Fauzia Kullane.
If you feel that they have celebrated their long time, even so, the same time was a fox which was opened by children preparing to go back to school, and those who don't accept to go back to school, and those who don't want them to go back to school, so that they could have reduced due to a lot of work that they did by Miss.
The Nyakahura did not complete his story because I would like to advise his wife about the importance of controlling the efforts and not in this issue because of carelessness, cannot build a professional house!
By Bashir Yakub.
