Deaths arising from Malaria.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been reported, 20 October, 2016.

Number of deaths arising from Malaria in East Africa countries, including Tanzania has reduced.

However, the speed of dealing with different diseases has been caused by a large extent and people who suffer from sex, deaths of children and safe water use.
This has been explained through the results of scientific research that involved 300 diseases in 195 countries in the world. Those results show that, for Tanzania, the ratio between 544 children in every 100,000 children who were born have reduced and 338 children between the year 1990 and 2015.
Those results are the health of the diseases that have been published in the Ambassador Ombeni Sefue as part of the international research on diseases that doesn't affect the world, injured and other health effects that caused more than 130 countries in different health professionals.
"Many countries have been mentioned to be faced with health problems in a good level, the benefit of revenue, education and international standards, at the time the other countries are behind in the development issue and good health development," said Doctor Charles Msonden which is one of the participants of that research from South Africa.
Wienerschnitzel that is also a specialist doctor in the Faculty of Health and Science of Health at Cape Town University, South Africa, "he said.
"Scientists and policies in all nations from Afghanistan and Zimbabwe can use this research to plan their efforts and help their community to achieve their good health goals quickly."
In many East African countries, HIV infection of diseases were contributing to a large percentage in the deaths, for example Ethiopia have caused 57,931 deaths, but many deaths come out.
Moreover, other results of 25 years of East African countries show that, the age of living has increased.
In the year 2015, the age of living in Tanzania was 64 years, Uganda 20 years, Zambia the 57 years and Somalia in 54 years.
International, during the age of living a total of 62 years from 62 years up to 72 years from the year 1980, although other countries have had an increase in deaths, especially from AIDS and AIDS infections of the disease in the south of the Sahara Desert.
