Each person, when you go down, "our economy will go.
October 14th, 2015.

I have carefully read the explanation of the writer Ben Saanane in past issues of this newspaper.
I have faith that the first reason, and maybe the major cause of all the ones, Ben Saanane, write this article, is the truth that Magufuli has told the voters and we expect it from general through what is a few minutes.
What he made Magufuli is now (for voting), it is something that was explained well in the sectors of politics for more than five years ago, because that I have ever told the philosopher-communicable diseases, most of us believe that what candidate is a normal thing.
There are three major things that Cpwaa says that during that time the politicians are all over the world that they are doing until now.
Any candidate keenly, wants the promise to explain what he wants to do if the voters will also choose the general elections this year, John Magufuli and the candidates of all other parties have made a promise to voters.
Secondly, the second issue that Cpwaa says that at that time it is that candidates are supposed to be seen, the neighboring country and the poor citizens in these campaigns, Magufuli has shown the defending champions who are vying for the buses, "these these were written by CIDA, 64 years before Jesus also died.
Third, and this is the one especially Magufuli who had explained by voting in the stage, was explained by Chudasama, a politician who is supposed to ban his opponent.
That, if you will be competed for someone who is yours, it will be a mistake if you will not stop bribery at your campaign, if your opponent is wrong, you must use a campaign period to resolve the election.
In this election, there are questions about the health of the presidential candidate of Ukawa Doctor John Magufuli who could use three minutes to give the old native language about his opponent, but he has decided to use abusive language.
At the time he is looking for the presidential candidate, Vladimir Putin insisted that he used a long time to explain about the stability of his health after realizing that Barcelona is tired of drinking alcohol and evil deeds that he participated in showing the solution.
There was a time he claimed that he was going to appeal by a group of television and the newspapers so as to resolve the picture that he is running a sharp object on the sun and left open but he knew what he wanted to kill him.
Barack Obama said that he had a bunch of Senator John Lukuwi, did not want to tell Americans that his opponent had a bad health of what he did is to prepare a friendly match of basketball and breast cancer, Kobe Bryant and Shaw of the Americans.
If we agree that politicians are required to promise during this campaign meeting, they can be allowed to eat with pregnant women and go to the bus and we agree that they are supposed to vote.
Basically, the incident that Magufuli has done approximately ten o'clock only.
What do you know what?
In the United States, right now there is a famous campaign given by name (not pictured) on social media (MASACA).
What is happening at that campaign is for someone to get ten years every time you woke up and put a record, then you put on social networks like Facebook, Twitter or Twitter, while making your friend to answer you by doing so.
And everyone who knows her is that he is doing so by requesting all his friend to join. At the moment the campaign has got a great popularity to America and people do not know if they don't have a lot of mind, young people, women and all elders are participating.
Instead of closing up Magufuli by voting, Ben Saanane, is supposed to see President Magufuli for his action as if we expect all of them when they decided to vote every day, as a example of that leader, life will be very different.
