A new constitution is written on.
28th of 07, 2014.

Approximately two weeks before the start of the constitutional parliament, the debate of a three-government structure that was passed in the second draft of the new constitution has continued using political parties, the new constitution of CCM has organized a alternative draft within the constitutional parliament.
According to sure reports that got to this newspaper, CCM is like that it has made its new constitution commission that is abolished, judges and some of the politicians.
Among the information that they used in making the alternative draft of the constitution, we have attached the report of the commission on constitutional changes led by Judge Joseph Warioba, we have attached the report that they were handed President Jakaya Kikwete and the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein.
Apart from the others who were given we have attached his form, in line with the second draft of the new constitution, among other national leaders, including the minister of constitution and law, Doctor Asha-Rose Migiro.
Inside the "commission of CCM, who had been seen to be the attorney general (AG) Andrew Chenge, is mentioned to have said that," the commission aims at raising alternative thoughts and that of the commission of Warioba, especially the structure of three governments inside the union.
Already President Jakaya Kikwete, in his speech during the commemoration of the 37 year of CCM in Mbeya Province last Sunday, he said that the CCM's stand is two governments and who is supposed to maintain alternative treatments and not using motorbikes, while insisting that they are not recognized by the name "but it should be removed by using alternative means of the logic.
"What is happening in CCM is to create ideas or alternative recommendations that are not the same logic, CCM does not have faith that there are changes that can be done which can be supported by the opposition, but it is good changes that can be supported by the opposition," explained our news source.
It is said that maybe CCM didn't listen to the alternative of the structure of the government, that our news source has explained those thoughts that it is a great thoughts, that are not a tough stand about the structure of the union. "
But when CCM is in the efforts to bring a alternative draft on the constitutional parliament, the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) is holding the third phase of the government that was passed by the commission of Judge Warioba.
In his stand, CHADEMA does not have alternative recommendations about the third government, but we join the ones of the commission of Warioba, as it is for other opposition parties, especially with members of parliament.
That situation has taken place during the time those political parties under the office of the registrar of political parties is expected to meet on February tomorrow, to discuss their position in the constitutional parliament.
According to the report of the registrar of parties, Judge Francis Mutungi said those parties will not meet through their special tool, that is called the Council of political parties, it was a legal responsibility which is the national leaders of political parties from Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar who were chosen to represent their parties.
In another step, political reports from Zanzibar are urging them to make sure the translation of the issues about three governments or two governments has changed, after the meeting of the parliamentary election at Kiembesamaki, where Mahmoud Thabit Kombo of CCM has won after the constituency being left open due to the dismissal of the previous representative, Mansoor Masauni.
Several news sources have noted that the election was carrying a huge loss about the parliamentary debates on political parties in Zanzibar.
Most of them are saying the victory of Kombo whose foundation is voters in the top level and not for two government leaders, he explained that Kombo is a believer in two government and he was questioned and confirmed that in the CCM executive committee that had met in Zanzibar last month because of the appointment of the candidate of that constituency.
Mansoor who was chased away, posted his stand that it's not only three governments, but Zanzibar having his full authority, he is mentioned to be supported by the former President of Zanzibar, Amani Abeid Karume.
"The results of that election is because it is that the poor people have no problem with the kind of government, but these are the issue of national leaders only, this election had two different stations and it was a result of the citizens that the camp is needed.
