
Immigrants from 500 are expected to be in South Africa.

September 16, 2016.

Dar live.

More than 500 shillings that were to be used in South Sudan the day before yesterday, through 40 operations, different meanings in doing, being a big number of immigrants who had survived, in the danger of getting into Europe in the recent days.
The security squad of the coast region said that the rescue squad of 500 shillings been possible through 40 different operation, which made a Kitanzini ward, human organizations together with the organization of protecting the borders.
The European Union Jokate Mwegelo.
Photos of the spread of one of the funds to save, they bought approximately 700 immigrants.
In a bomb attacks, while others being removed from that vehicle while wearing a knee injury to save.
Lives, they have been trying to get married so that they get to 200 savers.
A five-year-old child was awarded among the immigrants who were married together with other young children.
Those who were carried in a high speed by using the very difficult time being taken to hospital in Italy, those are in accordance with the doctors who participated in the ongoing operation, "
On Sunday alone, more than 1,100 immigrants who were killed all in one area.
According to the United Nations Refugees Organization (UNHCR), said the total number of immigrants.
Who arrived in Italy, up to now it has dropped a little compared to last year, a total of 11665 shillings in this same as usual those immigrants do not play in Libya, while the sun is safe while the sun is safe while the sun is safe while the sun is safe.
200 savers of the Italy squad were forced to have flourish in weather conditions, they put more than immigrants in the dangerous journey to cross the Mediterranean Sea.
A phone that is used for those trips are so cunning, can't carry a large number of people who are admitted inside him.
In addition to that, some of the immigrants from that journey were not good health and therefore fail to withstand the journey of that type even when it is at it.
Since this year it started more than 3,000 immigrants, they lost their lives while they were trying to go to the Greek or Italy.
That is an increase of 50 percent compared to last year, in a period as the moment, while other immigrants of 2049 are also in the Mediterranean Sea and entered into Europe for the first six months of this year.
UNHCR said that the European continent is continuing with a huge conflict of immigrants to have ever happened since the second world war.
