I call to youths of your country to be forced, probably not the name.
Dec 4th, 2014.

If you ask you, will give you a matter to your country, and you don't ask your country to do it.

The youth are today's nation, it is not the nation of tomorrow.
The wind power affects many parts of the world, including the East African Continent, in general, and especially Tanzania, it is an illustration that the society wants change, changes in administration, policies, law and other things that will enable the country to be true, freedom is true and not true.
Why changes will be made by the youths what this is in Joshua Nassari of my faith as a result of our history at the Quran and the Bible), the news of the people of Israel have been expelled from Egypt for approximately 40 years.
In that 40 years, the people of Israel came through many days, but due to the stable leadership of Musa Assad had already taken that song and finally succeeded to win the game and finally succeeded to win.
God created Musa up to a long mountain, it shows our country's way after falling for him, God told Musa that Joshua and Kalalamila is the one that will lead the people of Israel to enter the church, and not him, Musa Joshua and Kalege to the youth.
I use this example to give the youth of Tanzania a message that they are the ones that will make Tanzania in great changes in social, economic and political parties that benefit all groups in the country - villages and cities.
The youth are a new generation like Joshua and Kalalamana, they have a new vision about our country to the elderly who play for freedom they have made great work to release the colonialist.
If the veteran film was difficult, it was a good thing and honor to the country, but we need to go forward more in the country so as to control the colonial history of Tanzania so that there is among many countries that will benefit and change that will benefit from us.
It's what caused Musa not to enter the state of his promises when it was very close to God, I don't understand what's not wrong!
The great wind of change is sent away from all the sides of the world, the administrative secretaries and oppressive systems that cares for more to the interests of the leaders and to stop many citizens that will go down.
Recently in Burkina Faso, Joel Campbel has been launched by giving birth to the public when he wanted to change the constitution so that they continue to rule.
The youth have a lot of vision as a result of this vision, they have the ability to bring these changes and for sure it is good changes to remind the leaders that have the last authority about how they want the country to be very important for all of us.
The vision is determined where he is with clean thoughts of being independent and many political parties has been fighting for freedom in many African countries, for now, or were removed from power, or they are in opposition camp.
Parties that are still in power, have gotten tired with the political tensions and the other are in the race to go or get into the opposition camp because the parties will be doing good work, but every right has its own time.
Many of our elders and leaders that fight for freedom are unable to go and change.
I take this opportunity to congratulate all the youths who have come out in large numbers to the local government elections like candidates and if voters are forced to come out in large numbers to youths in many areas, it is an important evidence that Tanzania will be used by the youth.
The youth is a nation of today, it is not the nation of tomorrow alone and let me make changes that will benefit today, your children tomorrow and that I quote it and will fall in many years to come.
When the youth have been taken to the hospital and we feel it will take place today, but the benefits of your actual problem is because the nation will not accept there will be no longer.
