
Thursday, January 15, 2015.

The children who like to play for the celebrations are learning in the age of 0 - 36.

In addition to playing for a primary need to learn in the child, sports has continued to see many parents get worried that sports can loose a lot of time to the child, a time that would like to be used for other things because it is a person 'person' and her fellow children is like a punishment.

In this article we do not want to look at how the mother is involved in making this condition of a child to love him and covered by the people more than what he is able to learn.

Not allowed us to know what you believe in.

The child "my friend" is the child we can say he has put games in front of all the time she desires to play with who mingled with her fellow children and she can't have a very important thing for other people that he can help them close naked.

What happens in misunderstanding that and others are not love to them, but it's his great desire to vote for people but it is contrary to the child of the first group, but when they start outside the country to satisfy some of the others.

This situation is as a result of upbringing which were written but by bad luck, they don't understand what the child is very important "to listen to him and therefore make the child to register her.

Unfortunately, it has been a cry for a lot of time, the mother has no information with the child and his results are not aware because they are not aware of the heart of a child.

The means of "seen" to her biological father?

The child of this group has not identified himself because he does not have a lot of safety with a parent who at a certain amount is believed but there will not be no longer, although the child of the group is not able to fall in the same time, "a situation that can attract them as a parent of the child with other important responsibilities'.

This is a lot of time, do not lie without a lot of time she desires to be the cause of talks at home, the good thing is that she has been surrounded by the people and finally we are involved in groups of people if we will be seen in future.

Because the child has for sure his mother loves even though he has not found himself, so as to get that love, the child is usually found and if he gets to speak, you can't see what she gets into a environment that does not depend on anything.

On the other side, this situation is caused by parents who are in body, but the feelings are like they are not pictured.
It is those who know the parents who until now you must have done extra work, otherwise your games of looking for him are not seen as it was not known.

Other times, it is a reason for upbringing that have not answered that the real claims of a child without forcing him to make a fact that what is needed for a child is what is usually not fit, but if that child is needed to do so much, the child is believed to have been informed.

Finally, the child is not noticed, an important thing.
That you don't know quickly when you know what happens, "Masau boasted.

I need to see you are already.

For himself, my son did not last week and sometimes it is difficult to know what to know especially when they sell the results, it takes place when the attempt failed to speak, "her biological mother comes back," she is heard.

Being between two and three years, there is a thing that it comes from, for example, he can baptize, with his parents because he knows how parents should be heard so that she can see you like a person who doesn't see if someone who doesn't see if someone who doesn't see if someone who doesn't have value and loved.

If the case of failing to make him make the parent to do, then the child have not seen the whole issue with parents and even with himself.
Suluhu has given out his value of being faced with people so as to compensate the naked photos, the sports is the good way and right is a good way for him to have other people.

While in the age of two and three years, the child of this group has already wanted to play very much, but his sports is one where he is doing a lot of time to play more than any other, when he attains three years, it's a very difficult time to play with sports especially the one that makes him appear and others.

In general, these are children who their people are important than any other activities and are led by feelings (right), let us lose hope and invest more so that their colleagues in the first and second group are taught.
This situation affects the courage from inside and making them to continue moving more to people through the way that will enable them not to use it as a result of here and there will give credit of papers and so on.

In the following article, we look at the last group of children living with sharp teeth.
It is continuing.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
