
Government of Japan to purchase the schools which have been built by an earthquake.
Sep 20, 2016.

The Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa while talking to the Ambassador of Japan in the country, Masaharu Yoshiba following the way the Japan can help be worth land earthquake in Kagera province.

The Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa has met with talks with the ambassador of the United States of the country, Honorable Masaharu Yoshiba who has explained that his government is ready to empower schools which have been used by an earthquake which occurred in Kagera province.

He also urged them to be given a list of emergency needs including tents, medicine, medicine and treatment equipment for the purpose of helping the victims of the earthquake.

Ambassador Al Suwaidi has said this yesterday (Monday, September 19, 2016) when he met the Prime Minister in his office in Magogoni in Dar es Salaam city to discuss issues of disaster in Kagera.

On his part, the Prime Minister has thanked the government of the country for that step and requested the department of deaths that are under his office to communicate with the Japan Embassy in the country and present a list of spoiled votes together with special needs.

At the same time, the prime minister has received a donation of 25 tons of rice, mattresses and 200 desks worth 10 million shillings, so as to help citizens living from that earthquake.

The donation has been given by various stakeholders including the Public Service Officer of Chang'ombe Primary School, Tanzania Limited Company in the country, Anna Mshana who has contributed 200 books worth six million shillings.

Others are the head of financial services of Barclays Bank, George Shumbusho who has contributed to 10 million shillings together with the secretary general of the Association for Friendship between Tanzania Government and China, Mister Joseph Kahama, who has contributed to 25 tons of 5 million together with a total of 100 iron sheets that are worth over 10 million.

The Prime Minister has thanked those donations and requested other citizens to come out in large numbers to help people affected by the earthquake which is big and they have never happened in the country.

That earthquake took place on Saturday, September 10, 2016, causing deaths of 17 people and 440 people were injured in the provincial hospital, 153 were stolen, 213 others are continuing with treatment where 23 people were badly destroyed and they are going on well.

Also, the earthquake has caused 2,081 houses to fall down while 14,081 houses having a dangerous environment after getting a mixture of 471 points while the small destruction was 12,015 when they receive various donations.
I will end.
