
Doctor Kigwangalla launched the third forum for research scientists.
Third conference for scientists, diabetes has been launched today by the Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Health, Social Welfare, Gender, the Elderly and Children, Doctor Hamisi Kigwangalla at the Mwalimu Nyerere Hall (JNICC) in Dar es Salaam city.
The conference that will happen on March 16, 2016, is ongoing with the organization that is involved in matters of diabetes, East Africa, institutions which was started in the year 2011 so as to encourage the community about that disease and to look for treatment.
Speaking to journalists, the coordinator of that conference, Doctor Kaaya, said that conference has welcomed visitors from other African countries in East and South Africa to participate in discussion with the current investigation, being together with exchange experiences on how to solve the problems that are brought by that disease.
He said the conference which involve East African Airways (EAGI) in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children, will be followed by the special meeting of diabetes stakeholders in the world that will take place on March 17 to 18, 2016 at the Julius Nyerere International Meeting Hall in Dar es Salaam city, Tanzania.
The meeting that was organized by the World Diabetes Day (NRF), from Denmark in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children in Tanzania, together with the World Health Organization, will discuss various issues about the way to help patients living with diabetes because its cost is big.
The two meetings aims at solving the big diabetes problem that is ongoing in the African continent for now, which has been seen to grow the third time in the last five years.
Doctor Kaunga said that, apart from the discussion of the scientific research, other things should be discussed include the increase of diabetes, their families and the community as a whole, the importance of looking for a solution to the disease and the investigation of experts in the region.
Moreover, additionally, the research that was given recently has shown that in every six months, one person appears from the diabetes disease and more than 51 million shillings usually happens in the world with 415 people in the world living with diabetes.
Other research is one of the seven minutes, they are affected by diabetes for a period of pregnancy and giving birth, three thousand (75 percent) of diabetes living in the country under the HIV / AIDS virus, chest and even malaria.
Also an average of approximately 2 million people in the age of 20 to 20 that are diabetes in the African region, Africa is leading in the diabetes patients which has not been identified, due to lack of diabetes patients, they don't know that they have diabetes.
Others are the 2 type (2) a person can live in several years without showing any signs, effects that can come out is together with the kidney disease, the heart failing to work together with diabetes and South Africa (1 million), Nigeria (1 million) and Ethiopia (1 million).
