
Poachers have been expelled from work.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

34 servants of the court including the 11th Parliament have been expelled from different mistakes of discipline.

Moreover, the Court of Public Service Commission continues to discuss the fate of 30 judges who were accused of being involved in bribery and winning their goals in court so as to check if they did in disciplinary action.
The chief justice, Mohammed Chande Othman, said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was speaking to the press after receiving the report of the inspection of the court together with that fund.
Othman said that those servants have been expelled from the decision of the National Electoral Commission that took place on August 18th, this year after addressing various issues of discipline.
"We have met the chief judge in Bujumbura, the judge of the courts of Rombo, Temeke, Bahi, Chamwino, and Chamwino district and other 23 servants, this is a small number which is equivalent to 8 percent of all the workers but the court is very big," said the chief justice.
He said that the judge had been expelled from different mistakes of discipline, including the Muhuri of the court contrary to the procedures, affecting the rights of justice by opening the case of inheritance without having a certificate of death.
He added that there is a legal action that the judge or the judge while passing through section of the law is not satisfactory, but there is a mistake of disciplinary action that causes the qualifications to be the judge or the judge.
Regarding the judge who carried out bribery cases in court, Judge Chande said that the court can be able to get guilty, but the commission will look like they made actions of lack of discipline and to make her liable.
Furthermore, he said the 32 judge who were faced with criminal cases and won the case in court, are expected to be taken against them in court's ethics committee because it is possible they have not been found guilty of criminal offenses, but if there are actions of lack of ethics.
The special court of corruption and economic growth in other steps, the special court of corruption and economic growth has officially started and next week the regulations of that court, are expected to be sworn in by the chief justice Othman, said that the court has officially started on July 18th this year after President John Magufuli signing the law of launching that court.
"The next week we will participate in the various regulations of that court, including how to protect witnesses and procedures for opening the case," said Othman.
He said that the court will have enough judges so as to work with integrity and finish the case at time, it will also be postponed for time to time.
About the performance of the court, the chief justice said that the court cannot give justice if it will be creative and is operated by secret, that is why in the improvement of the court, they have decided to give an opportunity to the citizens to give recommendations or their problems through mobile phone numbers.
Former election cases presenting the performance report of the High Court, resident magistrate, District and Local Government, the registrar of the High Court, LMugula said after the election, they received 247 cases of elections and 194 of councilors.
Muguma said that they have already finished 234 cases, with 13 points but up to December this year, all cases will be ended.
Furthermore, he said the evaluation they did, shows that the existing cases are near the judge and if the availability of equipment for work is going on until December this year, all cases were opened this year.
The referral hospital on its part, the registrar of referral hospital, John Wanga has said that the level of finishing they meet in the referral hospital has increased, also they have an aim of making sure they use the judgment and within three days will be realized on the Tanzania High Court.
In addition, he urged citizens to cooperate so that the appeal can be taken and end early, because there are people who are unable to arrive in court without the basis for the foundation or giving excuses that is causing their appeal to the late.
The importance of the court in his speech during the commemoration of the Law Day on February 4th this year, President Magufuli said he is depending on the court and he told the judges and the judge in the country.
I request honorable judges and honorable president, I request Tanzania first to be able to reach far and we will be able to help many Tanzanians and I have decided to help many Tanzanians.
