
Ndugai cutting the status of parliament.
Brightiles 18, 2015.

The Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, has already lost the new speaker that is expected at least five years of the fifth term government, under President Doctor John Magufuli of the new speaker, Job Ndugai.
Job Ndugai, for now he is a member of parliament for Kongwa, Dodoma province and he has been a member of parliament for that province for approximately three months now, that is since the year 2000, this is his fourth term in parliament.
In the 10th parliament, Ndugai was the deputy speaker under the former speaker, Anne Makinda to address the ninth parliament that was under the speaker, Samuel Sitta, Ndugai, was the chairperson of parliament.
The warning issue is that, the experience should be used to continue with those who have been used to continue with the ones, especially by talking about the previous mistakes, we believe that there are many things that have been done in those steps, the weaknesses that have been forced to come out.
For example, among the good issues in the ninth parliament is together with the speaker, Samuel Sitta, to make that decision to make laws and to advise the government, to have a special committee of supervision of government accounts, especially the executive committee of the public organizations (PAC) and put a decision to make sure that the committee is a must be attended by the opposition member of parliament.
We have witnessed the cooperation of its kind between parliament, from the ninth parliament to 10, and the office of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG), the transparency in those offices which are the bridge to eradicate corruption that was happening silent but having open effects on the economy of the country, from the level of the council to the level of the nation.
By considering that and others, we believe that Ndugai and his fellow leaders of parliament on the reason that will be a member of parliament to improve the increase of allowances among them, up to the level of fighting for the interests of the public servants and the workers in general.
Ndugai said that the members of parliament are happy about the fight to save the allowances among them, but without doubt, he knows how all the new leaders and those who want to return to all the leaders, together with the executives of the agency, we are expecting the parliament to citizens.
