
MCT thanking President Magufuli war.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

Tanzania Media Council (MCT) has praised the government of President John Magufuli in his efforts to fight bribery together with embezzlement and said it should be supported with each one and also media stations.

The executive secretary of MCT, Kajubi Mukajanga gave those congratulations yesterday during the 18th general meeting of that council that took place in Dar es Salaam city.
Mukajanga said that in that news, it is number one in fighting corruption and they are asked the government to satisfy some of the recommendations that they err.
"Historic state, the government does not know that existing laws need amendments, to reduce them because it will not pollute the forefront, but are entertaining behind," said Mukajanga.
He said at the right now the ethics committee of that council whose chairperson is Judge Damiani also continues to collect enough evidence so that they go to speak with the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye about the conflict to follow up to the press.
Media houses which were banned by the government recently are Daily News and Radio FM radio and Radio Five that with the president of the council, Judge Thomas Mihayo said the press together with journalists are not allowed to use their primary rights while the court is the right place to claim the right time.
"Couples are many not like to use the correct sources of being able to get their rights.
Journalists when you want to get your rights, look at the court because it is the only instrument they can be able to give a true right, "said Judge Mihayo.
The member of parliament of Ubungo through the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), who is the executive director of the magazine Mwanaisha Abdalla said that there is a problem to the journalists that they give him a solution to the court, maybe it is because of a long process.
He requested MCT to be on the front line in managing the cases in court, because by doing so they need to go for those strength.
"It is my condolences to MCT, it should not be put in defending the journalists and the media," said Kubenea (in the picture) saying that it is their responsibility they have received it, they will increase money for the purpose of helping media freedom in the country.
