
Four pregnant women attacked him.

It has been written by Lucas Raphael.

It has been released, October 25th, 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Tabora, Aggrey Mwanri, has visited the parents' ward at the Kitete Referral Hospital in Tabora province, to find pregnant women and parents who gave birth to three or four in his bed.

Mwanri has said that pregnant women and parents to sleep at four or third or third, are dangerous to the health of mother and child.
He has directed the chief medical officer of that hospital, Doctor Nasir Kapama, in collaboration with the leadership of that hospital, to do everything to solve the challenges, because it is dangerous to the health of mother and child.
As the leadership of that hospital, to make sure that pregnant women who will go to give birth to the hospital, don't be self-employed for the medical equipment, because the government had ordered to be given any cost.
Doctor Prize has told him that, the congestion is due to a limited space in that ward, that is why they are unable to increase their beds and added that, the end of the clinic and the district hospitals also contribute to that problem.
The supervisor of the women's services in the ward, Elichilia Khamis, said that on an average of 25 to 30 children, they are going to the hospital to give birth every day as a result of lack of districts in the district and that is why there are congestion.
In order to reduce that contribution, the health officer of the ward, Eva Isaya, advised the clinic and health centers that are in Tabora Municipality, which will be used to receive the Kitete Referral Hospital to attend to those who will be released only.
In that tour, Mwanri handed over 100 bedsheets at the ward that were given by students from the Public Service College, Tabora branch where they also gave food donation, fashion designers and other things that are worth 1 million shillings to the elderly in Uknga region.
The District Commissioner of Tabora, Queen Mlozi congratulated the leadership and students of that university for their patriotic heart to support the efforts that are being done by the government in helping the community because the government is only to do everything.
