
Yanga, Simba, Azam, from the end.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

I was published today September 17, 2016.

The Tanzania Mainland Premier League continues today where three players of Simba, Azam and Yanga will play three important points in addition, two brothers in one province, Mbeya City will host Tanzania Prisons at the Sokoine Stadium, Mbeya town.

While Simba and Azam FC are expected to play today at the Uhuru Stadium, Yanga will be at Kambarage Shinyanga stadium by Mwadui FC.
The match that will capture feelings of soccer fans is Simba against Azam FC as a result of those teams having great opposition when they meet, especially during this period where it has been involved in everything on the position having 10 points.
Simba has played four games and won three matches against Ndanda FC by 3-0 goals against Mtibwa Sugar with 2-0 goals against Ruvu Shooting 2-1 and got a draw without scoring against JKT Ruvu.
Those results are same as Azam that scored three games against Mbeya City 2-1, against Tanzania Prisons, 1-0 against Majimaji 3-0 goals and got a draw against African Lyon by 1-1.
This two times when the teams meet from a draw, no one who joined his colleague has come up in the last season, the first game got a draw of 2-2 and it also got a draw without scoring.
The players who have been trying, when these teams meet John Bocco and Ibrahim Ajib, all of them are in this season and they will continue to move forward if they will improve their differences.
This match may be hard and maybe there are goals due to each one, to show their quality as a result of its players from their new players but also, everyone wants to sit on top.
That Uhondo program will be known today at Kambarage Stadium, Yanga will play against Mwadui FC at the last season away matches, the Jangwani team was forced to a draw of 2-2 goals.
Yanga has already played three games with two goals against Majimaji 3-0 against African Lyon by 3-0 goals and got a draw against Ndanda FC 0-0 and therefore, attaining seven points.
Mwadui FC has won one game against Mbao FC a 1-0 victory and a draw of 2-2 against Stand United against Toto African 1-0 against Kagera Sugar with 1-0 goals.
Every team needs good results because Yanga needs good results to ensure the position to defend his championship and Mwadui FC, wants to do well a good place.
In Mbeya City, there will be a game of two brothers, Mbeya City being the host of Prisons at the Sokoine stadium in the last season, Prisons was a tyrant, after the first round in a draw without scoring and the second round 2-0.
Perhaps, Mbeya City that started well this season, since another match will be between Mtibwa Sugar against Kagera Sugar at Manungu Turiani Stadium, Morogoro province, will be a opposition match due to having two coaches who have ever played for Mtibwa Sugar.
Salum Mayanga, who training Mtibwa and Mecky Maxime, all from Kagera Sugar, all of them have ever played Mtibwa Sugar at different times.
Mtibwa explains that it will be a difficult game because they have two injured who are reliable and strong, Said Mohamed and Abdallah Makoko, and now the third goalkeeper Benedicta Testify which will take their position.
Other matches are Ruvu Shooting against Mbao FC and Majimaji against Ndanda FC which all of them got a good place as Majimaji will face both games followed by Mbao with one points and Ndanda with two points.
