It is a time of Jay Z in order to move forward, with CUF to listen.
Mr 24, 2016.

The repeat election in Zanzibar had been done by what happened, and for sure, there was no any way to do except going back to the election. It is very bad luck and the main opposition party in Zanzibar where CUF appeared in the election exercise with a democratic nation in leading the consent of the public in leading.
For CUF, it was a decision by mistake to boycott the election. It is a decision with the highest cost, political parties is not supposed to be hostile and the only thing is that CUF should be able to participate in the coming elections in which they believe will be free and fair.
And the official process of this way we have run having more strength as CUF through its representatives, they would have come into the party's grave, but there is no need for CUF to sit down and leave CCM alone.
CUF can also recognize the power and his historic position in building Zanzibar. It should be remembered, CUF party was formed on 28th May 1992, it was a result of the merger between the Party that defending the Citizens Rights Commission (Civic Movement), in the continent and the KAMAHURU party of Zanzibar.
CUF has been a result of changes in the country, although the NCCR-law was the first political party, CUF was a second party to be signed by a big party system after CCM's only party with the assurance of having a member of parliament from Unguja, Pemba and Mainland.
Different of us intellectually and it is this view as usual in politics, there is need for sustainable talks in getting a solution to conflicts, it is not easy to get winner in every conflict, sometimes it is run at the environment of both two sides to win, each one should have won by the White men.
Talks between CUF and CCM are going on and even been involved, they were not involved in a mediator from outside the current environment of CUF and CCM are not worried that it could be done, the world is looking at.
Yes, CCM and CUF must meet, follow up, it will be allowed to meet, it will be availed to the same time for the interests of the nation, there is no one that won in today's war or tomorrow without the right time, all of us are unable.
It is obvious that the people who are the ones who are involved in today are those in the economic and non-related treatment to return to them their hope.
It is known, the employment for those in the islands resulted from the growth of the tourism sector which is currently in a result of the fear of violence against politics and tourists with a desire to visit the islands.
They want that most of Zanzibar is the presence of peace and stability of politics so that life and their economic activities continue to continue in Zanzibar, it has also been lucky to have a constitution that allows the presence of local governments.
In the real situation as it is now, the people of Zanzibar should not be treated in the Indian Ocean, a repeat election which was done is now for politicians to leave the private interests and to look for the future of many.
Everything is happy in the people of Zanzibar.
