Third time.
You know what?
Wema Sepetu, should not be able to announce a person of the terror attack by the team and the citizens went to three teams just after scoring one goal by scoring one goal, while he refused.
And just after the game.
How could have been able to marry off something that can about how many Tanzanians must allow me to understand the effects of talk about.
.
It is very difficult and saying the United Nation played well but we have planned to start from ninety minutes together with the signing of a penalty that we don't have done well and that we are ready to play for the final match to win our championship.
It is believed to have chosen the executive director any way you must make sure that this year we have been able to provide technical colleges and to ensure that we are supporting the Almighty God for the purpose of you to thank the Almighty God for the purpose.
The final stage of the game to be difficult, even the fans who he went to play for ninety minutes to one goal, but you do not want us to make them feel good and we do not want them to do well in the semi-finals where we do not want to thank you and we are going to do well in the semi-finals where we are supposed to inform you and we are happy to do well in the semi-finals where we are supposed to inform you, this is a gift to the villagers.
It's not only that was given by who had been taken to today broke the victory.
When you came out, it was also known, the ball has been discovered, they don't have heard.
Everything should we have forgotten.
When we look for delegates next year.
If you go to Grind.
The forehead what has been in that building is fighting the road.
Only Yanga does not mean?
The husband did not just be silent because of the coach who came back again, yes, I do not despise the traditional and abusive language, therefore, it will be able to get a child, then it will be given a child who will go to the pitch on Wednesday in the finals of the cup.
From the school about the schedule of the match.
It is not a sign.
