The name of Shangani region, Mbeya Region.
May 6, 2015.

The citizens of Mbeya Rural constituency, they believe that Mkuchika (Shengena) claimed that he is faith that is making sure that every aspirant in the constituency through the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
The step by those citizens is caused by the investment that they made for that politician who built a name when he was the parliamentary candidate in the small elections of Mbeya rural, the year 2008.
When you visit his constituency to ask you, a young person you will enable you like your colleague, "believes, Jacob Wbut who is one of announcing the intention in that constituency.
The fear of announcing the intention in that party is not yet confirmed by the member of parliament, Mbeya Rural District, Jackson Mwashilindi, saying the citizens have a right to question because of what happened in the small elections, which the party was represented by Shangani region after being unable to relocate the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
The step of that politician to move to CCM after failing to change some of the parliamentary members of Mbeya province that he violated their party.
"You must know who is going on who is going to do, you will still be so much in Mbeya villages and this issue is open," says the chairperson in his interview with Raia Mwema.
Mbeya town region has 26 wards, and according to the member of parliament, Mbeya district, they have organized to lead the district council to reach that step, they will be forced to win more than half of those wards, something that says it will be possible and even take all wards.
Heading to the small elections of the year 2008, that was held after the nominated member of parliament, Richard Nyauhenga, the Party of Democracy and Development, announced to build up to the villages in that region and threatened the lives of CCM in that district.
Improving the party in urban and rural areas in that district, in building a big faith in winning in the election, therefore, the reports of failing, again with the CCM candidate, they believed that he was not known as it was for their candidate, an accident which put him in a difficult time.
Shangazi has left that party and joined their rivals, CCM, where among its claims, it was together with the increase of bribery inside the leadership of that party.
As they prepare for this year's general elections, the party members showed interest in contesting for parliamentary position, they have found themselves facing a question by the member of parliament, they have found with a question like "Nyereregete, we will enable you like your colleague?"
34 members.
Up to now, Mbeya Rural constituency is the one that came out to have a big number of members who have shown an intention to vie for a parliamentary position, where up to Juma the previous total of 34 members were unable to come out.
According to information from the party's office in that province, for the first time, the government servants are among those who showing those intentions, an issue that did not happen in the previous elections since it was returned to the system of democracy of many parties in the country.
Apart from the government workers, there are also business people and farmers in the previous elections, even small business people have been forced to vie for the representative position through the opposition parties, but in the general elections this year is still underway.
However, most of the ones believed to help them early as they fear to endanger their employment, therefore they are waiting to start with the official process that they come out and officially.
Few who contested for their intention in public is together with the regional coordinator, the southern highlands of the party, Frank Domonica Meena, Stephano Cosmas and Daud Lweno.
Mwaisege explained openly that he will not wait and that he does not have a reason for fear about anything related to the issue concerning the user of Shreen Sonero has claimed that the fear of that fear among the citizens, are derived from being accused of being accused of being accused of showing interest through that party.
Another member who is open about his intention to vie for the parliamentary seat in Mbeya Village, Jacob Wila, who believes that the system of his party of getting representatives from different positions is that which will decide who are supposed to fly the party's flag for a parliamentary position.
"I believe that the system will be used to get a candidate, but not the strength of the leader in the past," says Wbut.
Among the things that bothers leaders of the party right now, together with the issue of conflict between him, there are some who attended his intention, where there are some who visited to vie for the position of public leadership including parliamentary and parliamentary positions.
