
That is known as his mother, the lady, two and others.
Musoma.
The police commander of Mara Province, Ramadhan Ng'amilo source said yesterday that the incident happened on Tuesday at 4 o'clock in the afternoon when the mother of the youth arrived at home from work with her female child.
While talking about that tragedy, Hudugu Ng'ombeni, said that after the mother arrived at home with the child, the young man asked him to kill him while his friend (close friend).
While putting the door of the sun so as to prevent them to be released.
"Others are friends of that youth who were on the scandal to prevent them who are living in us," said Commander.
Commander said that the young man gave him a mother and her sister requesting him to send his mother to vote for his friends so that they can also arrive at that home and when they arrived at that home, when they arrived at home and when they arrived at home and they did not lie on earth.
He said that after completing the violence, he arrested some women with nude pictures using his mobile phone and then order them to leave that house without noise.
"He also urged them to tell them who are vying for him, anywhere, that she wants them and if they will make sure he will leave," said Commander Hudugu Ng'amilo said after the youth had his group to leave the women they were transferred to their homes and giving information.
After those reports, the neighbors registered themselves and went to arrest the youth with great weapons along with giving information to the police.
"Police arrived at the scene to arrest the citizens that they have arrested two youths and already they were injured and therefore they are in the provincial Referral Hospital for treatment but being under the police force and will be taken to court at any time," said Commander.
Mother speaks about the incident, the biological mother to the youth while he is being buried and apologized for what was said by commander Hudugu Ng'ombeni, that he was caught and looked for himself by his neighbor.
Other women were asked and said that the action made by the young man is dangerous because it does not affect the ownership of the community and that they can be a shame to their news.
I am pleased with his mother and his mother to go to his office immediately there is something he wants to tell me, I met with me when I met her with her mother and he said that she has been defeated in prison for 15 years and he has also been released soon.
