
These groups that get loans of Fly 540 Africa.

It has been written by Muhidin Amri Abeid.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

The National Council of Economic Empowerment Council in partnership with the Post Bank in the country has given a loan of 2288 million shillings to various economic groups in Songea district, Ruvuma province.

The executive secretary of that council, Beng'i Issa, said the groups that got the loan are 28 which are under the umbrella of Mahalangu (DMI) three groups that are under Saccos in Songea region, and 47 members from Saccos.
He said those groups, have received loans with affordable terms from that bank for a special agreement with the council, where the entrepreneurs and Saccos that have benefited from that loan.
Issa said, the Women's group of DMI have won 393 million shillings, as well (5 million shillings) on 28 million shillings, 200 million shillings and more than 100 million shillings, women are 522 million and the men are 186 shillings.
He said that the donation of those loans is the implementation of the agreement between the council and Postal Bank in the country that have been signed in July 2015 where the council of empowerment has been built for loans with favorable terms to entrepreneurs through Saccos.
Also Issa congratulated the Post Bank for continuing collaborating with the council in implementing an agreement of helping entrepreneurs to get loans with an aim of implementing their economic activities.
Issa said, the agreements have been signed at the two sides are important in dealing with the employment problem facing our country, because those groups will use the loans to start projects and therefore help reduce the employment problem in their areas.
He added that the 73 percent of the loans have been directed more to women groups that are the only pillar for the family because the council is evident, it will enable a woman to enable the whole family because women are carrying the heavy responsibilities for caring for the family and community.
