There will be written by Magufuli that is facing him.
Olle 31, 2016.

Finally the councilor of Chakwama, Mbarali District, Simiyu Province, Anthony Mtaka, has been questioned by the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (TAKUKURU) about embezzlement of millions of money in the village of headquarters in that district.

Philipo Mangula who is also the chairman of the government of the headquarters of the headquarters, was questioned by TAKUKURU officers in Meatu District, August 22, this year, being among the five leaders of that village who were interviewed that day.

Others who were interviewed are the executive officer of the headquarters in Singida, Isack Magula and the leaders of the Community Welfare Center of the village, Hawa William (chairman), Isaya Daniel (secretary) and Sophia Kaduma (photo).

Our source of sources have we have explained our citizens the day before yesterday that those leaders have been questioned about embezzlement of revenue from the Social Welfare Center which its activities are being managed by Philipo Mangula.

The chairman of that station, Hawa William, has spoken to this newspaper and claimed that he and his colleagues were called and questioned by TAKUKURU officers in Mwandoya Village, Meatu constituency.

"TAKUKURU was forced to see one after another in their district offices they were following up the revenue and expenditure of the health center of the headquarters," said Hawa William and continued.

"But what is surprising me, even me is when it was discovered in the interview that there are 13 groups that got funds from community issues, that I am not true.

"It is discovered that the documents of the funds to be given to those groups were touched by the chairman and the executive director of the village and have an agreement for those leaders.

"Among those groups that got a loan of 42 million shillings, 42 million shillings, 19 million and 13 million shillings, all the funds that were issued by the Social Welfare Center without knowing.

"I also arrived, I was surprised to see the documents that as I commend him for the purpose of giving seven million shillings from our station, which I don't have his news.

Therefore, 13 groups that are seen to be given the loans have already been on the list of 25 groups that have participated in the top of the year 2013 and 2014 which were providing them every loan of four million shillings. "

According to William Mpinga, the source of revenue from the group of issues of the community is a subsidiary of Erick Holder Limited through the fund to help communities in the headquarters of the headquarters.

The company is involved with crude oil in tourism and taking pictures at the spider plant in the village.

The efforts of getting the chairman of the headquarters, Philipo Nyandugulu, so as to talk about the issue, it did not give fruits the day before yesterday after his mobile phone not to be in the air when he was called.

On his part, the commander of TAKUKURU in Simiyu Province, Adallah Mayomba, when he was asked by Good Citizen about being questioned for those leaders, he refused to speak about that issue through phone.

"You know the issues of investigation did not come to your office and I will be happy if you come at the office, we are and the office is," said Eucharist.

Being interviewed by those leaders who had gone to approximately three months after the chairperson of the government of the headquarters, Philipo Mangula, officially announced the intention of dispute between the Controller and Auditor General of Chakwama, Limited.

That step aimed to look for the legal action of the conflict between the headquarters and the village where some of the citizens claimed to be tired of the officers of that company every time when they were selling their livestock inside the reserve of investment.

Philipo Mangula announced the intention of conflict in front of the Simiyu Provincial Commissioner, Anthony Mtaka, who was accompanied by delegates of the defense and security committee of the university in that province during a rally to the residents of that village.

More information that was found in the village were claiming that the conflict has been a high standard in the world by the chairman of the village, Philipo Nyandugulu, due to the difficulty of his personal interests.

However, that provincial commissioner warned residents of that village to address that issue keenly so as to avoid getting into problems that are not a must.

"I understood the right now because of our colleagues in the beginning, they already put yourself from each other, we are not seeing the things we are not aware because his current results are not wrong," said Mtaka.

Previously, Mtaka instructed the executive director of the Meatu District Council, Godfrey Machar, to make sure that the executive officer of the headquarters, Magoza village, as been arrested and put behind bars due to the mistake of not present at that meeting so as to bring down citizens revenue and the use of money they receive from the Sunni company.
