
RC, Arusha, stakeholders discussing challenges of tourism.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

Stakeholders in the tourism sector in Arusha province have met with the head of that province, Mrisho Gambo to discuss ways to deal with challenges of the sector, while requesting them to visit the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) Hai District in Kilimanjaro Province to see traffic jams to enter the country.

Moreover, they also insisted that tourism in the culture including food of natural food is a must to be announced through a special network that will be started in order to promote more tourism attractions inside and outside Tanzania.
That call was given at the end of the week by various tourism stakeholders who met with various challenges in the sector and how to advertise the tourism attractions available in Arusha province and different areas in the country.
The chairman of the Association of Directors of tourists (TATO), Willy Chimela, said that the tourists are going to come to the country through the airport of KIA to get the disturbance of waiting for a long time a situation that is causing them to them.
"I request that head of province to work on the field so as to see for yourself the real situation that affects tourists arriving in the country for the purpose of visiting various tourism attractions in the country," said China.
He said that in another country there is no problem in the area of being blocked and emphasized on the quick changes that are being done in the tourism unit in the stadium so as to bring peace to the tourists.
Gambo said that they had received the views of those stakeholders and they will work to work including doing a tour at VETA stadium so as to see those challenges.
He also said that the issue of investment is a must that they be looked at with the only eye, especially investors when they come to the country so as to open some business and Tanzanians to get employment.
And the stakeholder of tourism in the culture, Anna Pallaghe urged the tourism stakeholders to market more in tourism in the culture so that different people can benefit from because private schools have benefited from four classes together with the teachers office in Arumeru district as its contribution to the community because of benefit from that tourism.
