President Kikwete has urged the leadership of the army to make sure that the university is dangerous and eventually fulfill the intended purposes of our writer, Zuhura Hanif he had gone to report that is read here.
May, at the National Institute of Security and not in Kunduchi Dar es Salaam city has officially launched this college which has been built on the donation of the government of Tanzania which is giving training to the security and security officers.
.
He has said the introduction of that college and the implementation of a lot of life dreams of getting experts with the international standards so that how many days you get in a week.
That, Diana said this college will give the graduates who have the qualifications of international standards but I believe the graduates of this college will have appropriate measures against the world, President Kikwete also explained the importance of the university to the nation.
Remember we are playing more about Azam FC.
We thank the one who sent the security and security so they are able to fight.
Make sure right now give a better way here to learn more from.
We are unable to reach this week.
And in that, it was a activity.
It is about now people.
It is touching the army but it also concern various people in the normal life of citizens.
Even in the picture.
And that is why in this training, I'm in the list.
It has the army and it has those people that concern energy, there are energy.
If you want to protect the country will give security to the energy.
The late God will be present, other people believe that they will be there people said that the road are supposed to learn through if they don't want to learn through if you're not easy to talk to the minister of defense and the army of building two nation-old captain, he has said that his ministry expects to receive many senior officials from this government to get the profession.
The university has begun to receive students in school from various government departments which will be able to return for a period of one year strategies of defense and security in matters of economy and security and all security.
Darajani Mhando, P-Square, on seven o'clock.
