
Who is Karrima Carter during the killings of the researchers of Arusha.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was published today May 11, 2016.

The Member of Parliament of Mtera, Livingstone Lusinde who is accused of the brutal killings of the researchers of the Agriculture Research Center, Selina (MARI) of Arusha, which took place in Iringa Village by being stabbed with a fire early this month.

The member of parliament has urged the citizens who registered themselves back to their homes and to cooperate with the police force so that all who were involved in the incident are arrested.
Who is popularly known, who is a member of parliament through the Revolutionary Party (CCM), said this yesterday when he was explaining about information written by this newspaper about the allegations of encouraging citizens and revealed that those accusations can be responsible for his enemies to stop politics.
"I have never been questioned about incitement, those reports are not true and there have been a lot of noise," he said that she is not true that I have been questioned by police on something that I have never seen people, "I have ever heard of people doing major events like which occurred in Iringa yesterday.
"Day before yesterday was not in Iringa town, I was on a tour by the Prime Minister and since the election has never been done any meeting in the village," he explained.
He said that he has been working in collaboration with council members and the chairpersons of the villages, who is alleged that he went to the police station for the purpose of welcoming leaders and citizens, who are prisoners about the incident including councilor Robert Chibu and one citizen of Plasmodium falciparum.
"I greeted her and asked the situation that they have said they did not be involved, I urge them to cooperate with the state agencies so that the rights can grow and ensure that police are continuing with the investigation of the incident," he said and claimed that those killing has resulted in all the activities they have presented.
He said according to the report that Jokate got yesterday to his secretary Patrick Kluivert who is also the councilor for Maksimir Stadium, a situation in that village has begun to return slowly, "the citizens have started going back to their houses and life it started to return to the village," he said.
He said that now the citizens who are good citizens have started to see the cost of losing peace and that one is a lesson to the citizens of the northern region.
"Nasemphasized to the citizens to go back and recognize the involved involved in the event," insisted who is believed to be one of the famous members of parliament by building a motion in parliament.
He said before the incident of murder of researchers, there was another incident of killing a woman known by the third name, a resident of Vikuruti, who was found dead in the Iringa area.
"I believe the state of dollars they work in search and arrest the killers and if there is a citizen who has reports of the third killing, they should not hesitate," he said and added that the cooperation and the leaders of the villages are good and the government's contribution is big in implementing development activities.
Three people from the Agriculture Research Institute (MARI) in Arusha, that are Nicaragua, who was a driver together with two researchers, Teddy Mapunda, Jafari Mahunde was killed by being faced by unknown people as the residents of Iringa town, October first, this year when they had gone to the village to do research on soil.
