Zitto Kabwe getting to January, Mwigulu.
Jo'clock, 2015.

The general leader of ACT Wazalendo party, Zitto Kabwe, has urged two presidential candidates of CCM, January Makamba and Mwigulu Nchemba, to move from their party and join him as the truth they want to change.
While speaking at a rally in Kibaha town yesterday evening, Zitto said he didn't believe that CCM can bring any changes in the country and instead ACT Patriots are the only solution of contraception?
I would like to listen to my fellow youths like January and Mwigulu Nchema about the issues of CCM I think they were just a long time, they should come to ACT-Wazalendo which already has the policies that go with their requirements.
"I am not true that changes will be made through CCM and that is why all the days I have been urged fellow youths who want to lead our country as January Makamba and Mwigulu Nchemba to leave CCM to come from this party so as to build a new constitution with stable foundation," said Zitto Kabwe.
Zitto is on a tour to accompany his party in various provinces in the country, three months after being elected to lead the party with approximately one year old.
He said a lot of problems in Tanzania can be able to be taken through the area of Tabora which was launched by that party this month, which together with other things, he insisted about Mihanje and the public leaders.
In that meeting that was attended by hundreds of citizens, Zitto Kabwe urged the people who want to vie for presidency this year, not it does not end up about bribery and instead do not tell them what will follow up with the problem.
The former member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency explained his disappointment in the economy of the citizens of the Coast Province, especially in Kibaha, which is in the neighboring country of Dar es Salaam but he didn't know with that close relationship.
"The residents of Kibaha, your coastal region is one of the poor provinces in our country.
"ACT Patriots wants to cooperate with you to build the honor of Pwani province.
