
Artists should know that life's life is short.
I have a news reporter for eight years now and in this period I have written news about upcoming artist, he became the star then became upcoming stars again.
There are many artists at a way to make sure you have decided to clarify after falling on his work.
There are many artists who do not want journalists after two years are happy, and other two years later they start forcing us to take their information.
I have broken down saying the popularity of popularity by 80 percent of all the artists in the country is only five years.
In this meaning, artists are faced with economic challenges especially after their popularity set.
Many times it comes from getting money in the small age and the popularity who will participate in a short period in the country, the artist can be at the peak of success for the years that it reaches five.
The popularity of his popularity is usually of getting money through an event, contracts of advertisements and another deal comes at this time, but if the popularity comes, but if you start problems which we have witnessed with artists getting in such actions.
The research that was done in the year the day before yesterday by the United States National Bureau of Statistics, has noted that the African artist can bring up to 4 billion shillings in a period of five years for its success.
What's a question is to remain, this artist is working for this money when they get into or he knows it to believe that tomorrow we will play again?
I wish you to stop the doughing of this period of five years to invest and at least make sure that after that, the name it was not known to one of the artists like AY, Mwana FA, Professor Jay Z and others have committed that, on the front right, but you get to others who want to remain.
We will not be able to remain above and at different times, and also the needs to be looked for example, these people do not remain in the middle and they will invest well in the period of five years to bring income.
This will not be done, we will expect to see artists that continue or in evil actions as alternative to remove their ideas.
