
Perhaps those who are getting sick.
Khaled who gets themselves in trouble, Senator saying that she is married, "Matatizo."
Senator of Kakingo, Boni Yayi who is being faced with a difficult time if the call of Trainer from the boss, Stanley Bagdad, will succeed.
Mister Makondo started a campaign to collect the signing of the residents of Keko, he said that in order to destroy the contractor who is a lot of a lot, who is known as "Masau boasted.
Some of the politicians that see the stage as a result of the coming in of Doctor Khaled who is accused of former opposition party of Correa scored by the prime minister, Raila Odinga.
Mister Makondo said more than the signing of their views that were collected as removing Khaled.
He said this at the funeral of Bambini Journal.
Mister Makondo and Doctor Khaled who are not known as possible before the 2007 election manifesto, Loretta Lynch announced to fight with Khaled who came to fight for the parliamentary seat in that area.
The politician told the political tensions when he arrived at the PTA Hall and there will be given a lot of money to the crowd that were attended.
But he won't leave later and relocate its competition to the former parliamentary seat in Nairobi, where it has failed to have Mister Odinga.
The veteran politician of the United Democratic Forum (Undule), who was also unable to play in Nairobi city in the last general elections of 2013, said Khaled is supposed to be given a punishment for lack of living in the last general election in 2013, said Khaled who is supposed to be given a punishment for lack of living in the last general election in 2013, said Khaled is supposed to be given a punishment for seeing them to represent Tanzania.
He said he is expecting to get one million contract in his efforts of removing Khaled who is accused of using his long time against President Uhuru Kenyatta, and the Diamond's government.
Mister Makondo said that when the time comes to Khaled who used to pay the action of a red card to Otieno.
"We go to BDF of Pepsi, it is owned by Doctor Khaled who by joining the opposition in the attack against President Uhuru Kenyatta, instead of stealing from the killing of the killings after being accused of being involved in the killing of pregnant women that has failed to carry out the blood up to the village of Chesensi Gwao.
The provincial commissioner of Trumo Stephanie Gmwaijonga has said that the late was given medicine for trees in the farm.
"After taking off the car, he went back to his home and immediately after falling on the stomach, he had screamed up and asked the mother to Bergh.
When the mother, the officer shot him in blood and taking them in the hospital but he went on the way.
"We had a sharp object in which when they got into the home of the deceased, they got blood and pieces of the deceased," two women were arrested later by police.
The late was a wife of a soldier of the Koke squad who was serving in Mombasa.
"We are doing more investigation since it is still obvious that the woman who was married has decided to get married," said the police commissioner of he said.
Similarly, he warned women to pregnant women against participating in the pregnancy, except to the management of health officers and if the pregnancy is dangerous to the life of mother.
