The constitution is our property.
A new constitution.
And if the process took place with good intentions.
The process has been done for good intentions now, then if the process is not complete, the citizens have been brought to have patience, every issue that is going on.
This will be now others who are saying that if they have used a lot of money, they have used a small money to any issue, therefore, there is no longer a constitution, there will also be a good constitution and I don't see why we are waiting for what we are waiting for.
We do not want to return.
Some of the others do not have a foundation of politics only but the constitution.
Last constitution is something that's a book of coming a citizen to walk with it's why I'm the constitution is not the first sports analyst Doctor Kikwete has shown an intention of wanting to drive the constitution of Tanzanians.
Opponents had claimed that for a long time the presidents who did not have their intention of showing intentions and politics to fulfill this constitution is making plans and the process of the constitution to write if who went to buy a tree.
There are countries taking ten years of five to make sure that our neighborhood has taken ten years to get their new constitution that is using now because it is not why for the two months or one year in general.
Yes, when he left one of the steps he made during the meeting, he will improve that process so that he does not depend on myself I think.
Is led by a city journalist, many days he knows.
One of the leaders being sentenced to its size as if we will get the new constitution we cannot talk about the word of forest that I will be mentioned we will be added so we can be true that Nice does not have been sentenced during the constitution of the constitution.
The constitution is headed to that vehicle that swimming with a constitutional process when they started with the president, we are supposed to take this time, I would say that where in the world it was like lack of peace.
To any Tanzanian, you must make that action because.
If you miss this is a scholar is a person who has a new person.
One goal is good.
Moreover to the way.
Those are issues.
Let me tell you even before he has gone into the leadership and went on and his intention was a result of being when we want to give the new constitution that we want to see if Jakaya Kikwete is like a human being in Parliament.
He can do?
He did his things but not his intention especially singing on Instagram the same way.
As a nation if Tanzanians think I think to look at.
When they were being thrown and let me take up when I take bribes there, I did not succeed when I saw a new constitution but we do not want him to be a new constitution but we do not want him to court, it will also build a behavior like that, it will continue to be a leader.
And if a human being I have remained with a very bad luck, there is no human being who will have done good without the mother there is no human being.
Therefore, he is not there.
Jonas himself said that he has been with those issues and that resulted in a mistake.
Who has done?
In life?
Now, we are looking for our leaders, to claim that they have done good conditions, then it will be difficult for all leaders who passed every person who had good and bad.
Therefore, we agree on that all the human beings who don't know that some of the small people and they don't know that some of the small people and they don't know what this goal was recently and I have never been happy and I have never been happy, "said General who blamed each other.
Still people are praying to the friends but those should also be remembered by the citizens that most of them were waiting for.
