
Chris Brown is happening in the label of the Khajida Kopa, the club emphasizes on transparency.
By Chris Brown.

The defending champions of the premier league in the country (TPL Board), Gor Mahia have insisted that the head of Uganda's national team, Godfrey Ngupula has said that their player despite holding the pace on rumors that was on the race to follow the footsteps of Ugandering the club at the end of last year.
The defender joined the squad of coach Frank Noni, at the beginning of the last season and helped the Kikio Team to defend the championship of the TPL Board and therefore qualify for the champion club in Africa 2015.
The future of Muhimbi in the club of Gor Mahia has opened up and raising the debates after leaving the Geoffrey "father," Kizito and Dan Mpogole who was signed by the rocks of Tanzania, Simba SC.
But the Chief Executive Officer of that club, Lennarth Hoja, has explained that Chris Brown is going on with a contract that is going on with the Kekeletse Phoofolo, and no doubt that he will lead to the squad this year.
"We have been heard more on 30th June, that Jews will leave after Ugandans have decided to leave and return their services elsewhere, claiming that those who don't have any defects because the person's contract is still ongoing with a contract of two years with us," said Aduda.
It will be a big blow to the Khajida Kopa, the another player did not loose the great player especially considering that they have already received three players who are participating in the Vietnam league and David, Vicente Calderon after he joined Zesco United Club of Zambia a few days ago.
This happens, the Khajida Kopa, the former captain Dojo Janja, Jeryson Oango, has explained that he has no great faith to the new player, Dojo Janja, that joined them from Thika United club after his contract is arrested at the end of last year.
Obrey Chirwa has said that we have the interest of many years he has planned to have that Chinese citizens will benefit us against corruption which were revealed at the rules of defense in the last season.
Gor Mahia FC is expected to participate at the CAF match, Kagame Cup of the TPL Board, under the former TPL Board and top 10.
