
Huawei has promised to give the ability to their distributors in the country.
Recently, the Huawei Kishkwambi company has made its first meeting of the Huawei mobile phone users in addition to the growth of the Huawei mobile phone company in general, this meeting that took place on 30 month of April at the Double M Hotel in Dar es Salaam city, was celebrating the efforts and the long standing of the Huawei mobile phone companies.
Some of the Huawei phones in the whole country have been welcomed by the Huawei team Device Tanzania from all the capital city like Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Arusha, Arusha, Kagera, Kigoma, Kagera, Kigoma, and Bukoba.
In that meeting, Huawei Marist Tanzania has put effort in the need to help the growth by giving a huge motivation to the Mister Devils Tanzania announced that 10% of the Huawei Kishkwambi revenue will be built as investment investment so as to increase and improve the Huawei products.

While speaking in that meeting, Mister Hu Xanana Gusmao and the Huawei's Manager Device in Tanzania, said that they are following a short time to speak with our stakeholders that will enable us to be the second position where we have 22 percent of the shares in (I1), 2016.
Also to give more strength, Huawei were announcing a special program where the heads will be awarded 20,000 American dollars for the first winner, and the second position will be given 10,000 American dollars.
Mister Mwaisobwa has congratulated more companies that help Huawei Devils Tanzania and more than 50 companies, they were given certificates to confirm that they sell the real phone and original products from Huawei.

Mister Hashimu Lundenga, the Huawei Communications Manager from Tanzania has also congratulated distributors and retailers were present in doing their good work, and a sustainable support and we have signed in good business in the next year.
The traders told the efforts of it will not accept it to improve the quality of phone quality and they admitted the quality of Huawei mobile phone with a cost of 10 percent and joining the CCM's campaign to eliminate the real phones in Tanzania.
In that meeting the Huawei Kishkwambi phone was announcing the new phones that will be in the market just like P9, 198, G3, G3, G3, Y3 (Y3) and Y3 (3) to ensure all Tanzania customers have a broader field of elections.
