
Man City gave Lamwai, a new contract.
Ntasoma Hotel, England, Manufacturing Company which is holding the Tanzania Mainland Premier League (EPL) has been mid-fielder, etc, Lamwai and the new contract that ended up at the end of this week.
The former star of another contract with the New York City since the end of June, last year.
Manchester City would like to confirm here that he doesn't have a contract of Frank Mvungi, up to the end of this week, so as to continue giving her important thing on this one in the national league and other competitions in Europe, "the club's report said through the internet.
Already star of the England national team has banned Manchester City 2 goals this season after joining with them on loan with New York City.
The American English Premier League (Cameroon) has said that when he will be officially known, "the director of soccer issues at the New York City, Claudio Ranieri, said Mrs Frank Mvungi the star is where Manchester City had decided to register their contract with him.
"He has the main desire to start playing for New York City just after he had his activities in England and we will give a permanent position to the squad," Manchester City coach Manuel Pellegrini has been happy after the star aged 36 years to continue playing for that club.
"Frank Mvungi is a high level player, we would like to know that he is continuing to score, it is more good when he is inside the danger area," he said.
"We have been happy to see that we have agreed to continue with us, we want to continue being with him," in other news, I advise that UEFA's president of European Union has emphasized his plan for the establishment of "UEFA card system" that will enable players to be given out for a period and then return later.
That French man aged 59 years gave the idea for the first time in October, but was defeated by FIFA president Sepp Blatter.
However, the Plateau region holding his position in the nine international meeting of sports that is taking place in Dubai.
"The white card is a new thing.
It is related to the behavior of soccer players so as to fall down and seems to be unable to oppose the decisions inside the stadium, these are not allowed to use people who like the game.
"Yellow card will continue to be used but it is very attractive to have another card.
"This white card will help a player in a stadium for several minutes, like five or 10, this will help to hold that game to be done by people who don't like that action.
