Employment is playing, the only thing to shoot the deal of poaching and 29, 2014 by Almighty God.

Tunduru is one of the districts that sent more education in education.
I have heard President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete when he visited me in my district this year, he urged all citizens to come out and show how we are late, Kikwete gave challenges to citizens who come to Professor Anna Tibaijuka, he told the citizens that he gets to Professor Anna Tibaijuka.
If this information is not correct for all the percent not to be afraid, because I gave them around two weeks ago I was visiting him to see the parents.
In the past I had to live in a short time in that district, I remember it was years in the beginning of 2000 and I got to witness the job positions in the army that they had announced they need the youths of form four but there was no even one.
One teacher in the district has told that last year the Tunduru district was the last week according to the results of the class seven primary school results.
The problems of Tunduru district problems are due to many reasons, a big challenge that is being mentioned by the poor awareness of parents of educating and parents with benefits of educating.
When I was in Tunduru District recently, I have learned that in the district there is a type of economy that is not officially recognized by giving them great success to the youth, there is the whole issue of mining of minerals in that district and youths who traveled by Mozambique to look for minerals.
Other types of economy that are not contagious has been caused by several youths that come from life by making sure that use the elephants and sell its colors that have a big market in the world so that there are also youths who decided to get into drug trafficking.
Now if the youths can be known, "through these ways, they want to build their lives to a level that a scholar can be able to save in life up to the age of retiring and getting its benefits, education for what?
Together with problems that affect the Tunduru education sector, there have been changes that shows success in the recent years.
As a result of an increase in primary schools, the number of form four graduates, although many of them have been getting low standards as a result of the shortage of teachers and mix up to form five, education colleges and even universities.
Although youths who benefited from those higher education levels, through private efforts are few, but it is very happy that there are many because we can say the current situation is best than in the past where they did not be completely eradicated.
For now several youths who have graduated from their universities have returned in their district in Tunduru district while having a lot of work without success, one brother who has worked with the internet told two youths among those graduates, they asked him to ask him.
If you look at the level of capital of that business, my brother to believe it is a joke to that youths feel they can be employed and work in that work.
Explaining to those youths, my brother told me that those youths were seen to have lost their wards, they don't know what to do after their efforts to look for himself.
The recent scandal of employment of favoring some of the Immigration Department that were unblocked through the media media in addition to my young people who have graduated in the universities but are believed to look for employment without even the symptoms of success.
That, the workers of that department decided to stop their employment brothers, they put it open that their brothers have no qualifications or they did not get enough points compared to the others, it is a surprising fact.
That, the servants of that department did that, they put it open that those are bad use of their offices and it's an act of abiding to those who have been denied the opportunities that they need from their ability.
Further, it's true that, if you have been confirmed that there are many big things because that was seen as suppression of accountability, but this is clear that it has been emanating from other departments, especially the security agencies divided into privacy.
This which occurred have reduced our education in Tunduru district.
First, the education that we are doing is dug with certificates, education that is preparing to be employed and not to be self-employed and do not be self-employed and they do not have money to consider the chest?
When you go to you, but employment will be able to get the best, and do not agree.
