
The World Bank has giving Tanzania a loan of 35 billion shillings.

It has been written by special writer, Washington DC.

It has been published today, October 2016.

The World Bank is expecting to give Tanzania a grant from a loan with favorable terms of 1 billion American dollars (6 trillion shillings). Those funds are for implementing different development projects including electricity, agriculture, business and renovation of the central railway infrastructure.

The Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Professor Benno Ndulu, said in Washington DC in America where the delegation of experts on economy and money from Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar are participating in the annual general meeting of the World Bank and International Monetary Federation (IMF).
He said that the talks about that loan in the end of the end, Professor Ndulu said that availability of that loan will help the government to improve various infrastructure so as to speed up development of the private sector by strengthening business and technology.
"Apart from that loan, which is important to the nation, we are discussing the way the growth of the economy is required to consider the normal life of our citizens by making poverty," said Professor Ndulu.
Furthermore, he said the World Bank has shown the steps that were taken by the government of Tanzania in promoting and managing its economy, which despite the world economy, the economic growth is expected to drop by 1 percent only, the economy of Tanzania is growing by 1 percent.
"Tanzania is among the four countries that are ongoing, where its economy is growing very fast and is expected to grow further due to lack of gas and drop in prices," insisted Professor Ndulu.
The leader of the delegation of Tanzania in that meeting, Minister of Finance and Planning.
Doctor Philip Mpango said that the loan that will be donated include 200 million American dollars for the purpose of built the ability of the electricity organization (TANESCO) to help them to avoid the deficit, that is caused by huge debts that are facing.
Doctor Mpango explained that the loan will also enable the government to pay debts that are claimed by the Social Security Funds, after the completion of the verification of those debts so as to enable that fund to give access to its members.
Deputy president of the World Bank who is in charge of the African region, Makoko, said that the bank will continue to cooperate with the government of Tanzania so that it can succeed economically and in the community.
He praised the efforts and the steps taken by the fifth term government led by President John Magufuli of moving their discipline and fighting corruption, a step that is being supported by his bank so as to speed up development of the country and its citizens.
