
The prime minister is growing up.
Brightiles 20, 2015.

Members of parliament as a result of parties that make up involved in political parties being identified as a union of the Citizens Constitution (Ukawa), have organized to disrupt the process of setting up for votes in parliament, the fifth term government, South Sudan, has been told.
Last week, this newspaper for the first time written on the existence of a plan to disrupt the 11th parliament of the fifth term, Doctor John Magufuli, a plan that would have been implemented in the stage as the President of Jakaya Kikwete, in the year 2010 or to stand up and making noise in parliament to an extent of the president's speech.
Being already the parliament members of Ukawa and their colleagues in other parties together with the party of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), have already been signed officially in Dodoma city, Almighty God, has been told about the attempt to arrest him by the new Prime Minister of President Doctor Magufuli.
The new Prime Minister who can be from the Southern Highlands regions or in the Southern Regions of Tanzania, will get a difficult time in the approval of the votes from all the two important sides in parliament, that is, the ruling party and the opposition side, is expected that the situation will be different from the election system and after the general elections of 1995.
Those new ministers who got votes from all the main opposition party in the opposition party and the ruling party, Edward Lowassa in 2005, was the prime minister who passed on that position in the scandal, Mizengo Pinda, who was sponsored by parliament for the year 2008 after Lowassa's resignation.
Behind that plan of destroying the speech of Magufuli's speech to launch the parliamentary seat, the speech by Lowassa and Ukawa in general not recognizing Doctor Magufuli and his government are mentioned to be mentioned by the government of Doctor Magufuli by making their promise to take place due to the budget of that government.
This is something a surprising thing and it is true and I am pleased with my colleagues (you are told you names of us), we do not support us because our party leaders live in government, "said one of the members of parliament from South Africa.
Another member of parliament from the northern region says that although he didn't agree with the issue of Ukawa's leadership that the elections for the presidential level has no legality but it does not have done in one government because it is impossible in government.
"You cannot say that the funds should not be in the government, I have heard the press but I don't see if there is no reason to boycott the government," said that member of parliament who did not want her name to be mentioned in the newspaper.
Mwema should also talk with another member of parliament from Morogoro Province who she didn't agree with some of the issues of getting in the government, although the government has no loss of 100 percent.
In the general election of this year, CUF political parties, NCCR-Evolution and NLD, and CUF appeared to support the presidential candidate, Edward Lowassa on the CCM ticket who was even so, according to the presidential candidate of CCM, Doctor John Magufuli.
As a result of failing there, Ukawa have been unable to vote and more than that, they have claimed the victory of Doctor Magufuli is not legal because the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC).
