
Babu Tale, his colleagues sell the convoy of RC.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Ngorongoro.

I was published, 08 October, 2016.

The pastor leading in the Loliondo land "who has given great popularity as a result of providing the medicine called 'a cup for Babu," the day before yesterday.
He joined the citizens of my ward in Ngorongoro, Arusha, to prevent the convoy of the Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo.

They accompanied by closing the road, requesting them to stop the conflict of land in a school that is claimed to be faced with a businessman who is also the retired councilor of that ward.
That scandal took place at six o'clock in the afternoon after those citizens having posters with the leaves that wanted to prevent the convoy for a long period of April this year said that land is wealth of the school and therefore wanted them to return to that area where some posters were easily read.
"We have reduced our land, the provincial commissioner will help them," the ones who have lost land in the school and the police will protect the chest and "the Provincial Commissioner, we request you to listen to the leaders of all the districts that have bought."
Before the head of province to return to him, the head of Ngorongoro District, Rashid Taka has said that the district police commissioner (OCD) moved to the hands and requested citizens to understand their problems in calmness and peace, without violence.
Speaking on behalf of the citizens of that ward, the Executive Director of that ward, Zakaria Anthony claimed that the area of 15 acres which were shot by the businessman Lemomo, who is the retired councilor.
Pastor Mwaisege said that he is on the front line to make sure that his school remains in his area being attacked by people with great strength because God does not like the things to kill them.
Speaking about that scandal, after listening to their explanations, the Provincial Commissioner urged the district commissioner to ensure they stand in the implementation of that order so that the development activities of that school will be held.
