Muslims all over that union came out and they will not participate in the.
And it's not that they did not understand about the importance of the sectors that we believe is not that they are affecting Spencer also for the possibility of their Prophet Muhammad was born and therefore he has not understood that because of the census and importance of people they think but they don't know but they are living in blood.
I decided to return the section of religion in the panel of money they will not participate in the program.
There has already started being conflicts.
There was something I was I see all the human being is same.
That counting will be like people with other people.
There is nothing to Christianity, where a big number of people want to know.
Where does it mean that it has many people?
Or Spencer also?
However, we are looking at all at this moment, even when I am pleased with the sister we are heading to.
The number of government loans in the past is to know the number of your people?
And it is not a word.
For what purpose did you be able to organize our lives of life and we know that we shall reach until when he said that in which number?
Hayatou is among the Tanzanians who basically up to now, the names of the money is, that is the reason to intervene.
All the preparations have we been born with a long time, but if we see if we are living in this life, we do not see any reason why we do not see anything which has never been beneficial to the government but also together with congratulating them.
That it is ten years now since the two thousand year and two hundred thousand in the ten thousand year and two years to be there and a procedure that is important and because we are going to the constitution.
We are requesting the citizens to give opinions and this issue of money will go in the constitution that there will be many years even if it was in the morning, it will be good to come out even if it was born and you will know it is possible.
The late?
National so that they can benefit from.
To help with the others in the whole issue of constitutional changes?
Mchaga answered that if I will be the ones that the ones involved in that exam, maybe I will do my work but if I will have my activities I have no reason to stop looking for a child for the purpose of choosing what I don't see any reason that will do not do any reason.
