A queness of us know what we are doing?
October 16, 2014.

"Because what is raising the whole system, he is supposed to come up with an alternative system of improving the issue that is there and our responsibility is now to think more on how to make corrections on the existing system."

Namo Jumatatu wakuu wa kampuni za huduma za wateja wao.
In recent days, they have emerged winners with the famous people who claim that now Tanzania needs directed by someone who would leave the ball.

Earlier I did not depend on a lot of statements on this way, but as days will continue to leave each other and many people are required to give a statement like this, I start getting fear and what is going in our country.

I have started thinking that because Tanzania has been lucky to have leaders who are not involved so that the leaders who are not supposed to do so that those who don't have lives (though in different levels), some of us have begun to do as they are not seen.

I believe it is because a whole person wants his country to be treated with a quito! If you read about the actions that they have done by their citizens you can be surrounded by deception even if the involved do not know about.

Who has never talked about that brutal act that are communicating with her citizen who had never seen how Ben has asked how he did with his citizens in Cambodia.

It's not all, we had never happened the brutal act that General Projest Ranaut have made us to his fellow citizens of Chile in who, who has not heard of the brutal act that was done by Jean Marie Le Pen from the Central African citizens?

For us who we have been silent, it's easy to say we need me a quent life but you can't know your family and killing your parents, brother and your sister, what would you need to grow?

It is one thing to hear the words like this being in the alcohol sector and another person, but it is sad, when talks about this way, when it started to stop while in areas to be keen.

In my opinion, this is the ignorance, which is loaded in the news headlines because it did not have a bad luck, as he did, Joseline Kamuhanda, false and a lot, it seems to have reduced the truth.

I think there are people who have decided to forgive me or ignorance, for a long time so that eventually they do not believe that is the truth.

This week we celebrate 15 years of the death of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere, who is one of the people who didn't know and defend our country for a broad way.

In one of his friend, Mwalimu got saying that in any country it continues to need four more things only by the people, land, political parties and good leadership.

The teacher did not want to say that everything is important in any country so that it can continue.

I have started this article with this quote of Vaquina, what is needed now is that we have outside the administration to sit and look for what the problem so as to learn from the countries that have continued.

The leader that is required in Tanzania is the one with the vision of wanting our country to reach a success expected because we need someone who knows what we want to do so that we can benefit from there.

It is need to have a quack dictator.

He made a system that was opposed due to all costs, tribalism was announced as the nation's enemy, the work that was called for small and politics made the economy.

Lee decided to build that nation because he knew the only way that nation can move forward.

Employment and all the opportunities were found because of the people not, and not knowing that human resources will be continued to people to get education and knowledge of the citizens to be competitors in the employment and entrepreneurship market.

Lee on an Sawazisha 'that he doesn't know a quish Bill Clinton, the president who in his administration was the economy and he was not a quack dictator.

Mao, Zuttah won't make China to continue with his contribution and new research shows that if possible he would have died early and he would continue to lead China for more than 20 years, that country will have been successful.

China continued during the rule of Denny Samuel Mpenzu who he had a quills, continued by releasing the economic opportunities and also to allow his nation to follow good things from other countries.
