The talks that goes to the rules will go in the steps.

August 24, 2014.

The meeting of looking for peace in Syria was expected to get important steps yesterday while the talks were presented in the political issues with their opponents while insisting that the government has agreed to allow women and children to leave the city that have been surrounded by.
According to Obi, the convoy for the donations was expected to enter that city yesterday, and that the rebels and the governor had already reached an agreement.
Mister Mayingu, who has been speaking with each other on his side, has said that he is impressed by the situation where he was defeated in those talks.
He said that every side shows honor to another, but he has admitted that it has been difficult to make steps and two sides have been going on well towards the agreement of peace.
The opposition spokesman in those talks, Salay Dar es Salaam, has said that yesterday's talks that those that will decide if the Assad government is ready for a political solution or it continues to ensure that the military solution.
According to DW, that spokesperson has emphasized that "now time has come to talk about the transition period from the British rule to go to a democratic elections."
But the government's side in those talks has already removed the possibility of discussing on Assad power, and until now it has agreed to talk about the issues of human rights.
The deputy minister of foreign affairs of Syria, Faisal has told the journalists that his government does not have plans to continue with the long-term sessions, more than finishing the fight against terrorism.
"We have come here to attend the conference and not the public meetings, we have come to attend the forum to end war in Syria and prevent the blood of the blood with terrorism," said dad.
The activists in the city of Hovind, have said citizens do not have faith in the government and the first they want to support human rights and assurance that the ones that will leave in that town are not arrested.
