
The source of masturbation is doing small education on frameworks.
The main reason for our nation to be faced with a huge level, affects the body and mental disabilities, is that many citizens do not have enough education about food and diet.
More than that group, the congratulations to some of the politicians, religious leaders and executives in government are not big in meetings that discuss issues of nutrients.
One of the reasons for this situation is to see that there is no new things that they get in the seminar or rallies, all of you know.
However, experience shows that every one who stopped the invitation and attend the meeting of food issues and food as required to learn new issues.
The recent statistics show that approximately 35 percent of children below the age of five are still doing here in Tanzania, Iringa, Njombe, Kagera, Ruvuma, Rukwa, Katavi, Kigoma, Katavi and Geita provinces have a cost of more than 40 percent of the children.
A big reason is affecting many children here in the country is lack of enough food and non-infectious diseases in the construction of better health.
Likewise, the experts of nutrients and health here in Tanzania are clear that the effects of poor infrastructure have been contributing to various diseases and even solve the nation's work because people with the problem have poor efficiency including getting tired.
The government officials and the experts have agreed to be without fighting poverty from the level of poor households that concern it has been extended to bring great effects in every day of Tanzanian children.
The provinces of Iringa, Njombe and Rukwa despite having a huge production of food, it is evident that there is poor eyesight.
It is clear that a small education on goods is, it is an indication that you can cause poverty to destroy our children without considering it.
In the previous years, especially in the African continent, people were using a big amount of natural food from the internet.
These days especially after the spread of the developed countries, many people especially in the cities eat food that have been buried in the industries.
In the industry of food, food, processing of food in the previous years is known as a sin that it cannot get.
Because, the world has a large number of people who want to get by using natural ways alone it is impossible.
However, the increase in food use that have been arraigned in industries will go together with the increase in modern diseases that come from drinking alcohol, blood pressure, heart diseases, cancer, a shortage of male and female children.
Also, due to the strength of business news in the media about food, they make many people without knowing themselves in danger of eating foods in non-income benefits.
One way to meet that challenge is to give enough community education about food and food, which will give correct the knowledge of correct election, to cook with little, eat at an extent and doing exercises or work from them.
