Countries being shown billions of shillings.
Petit 25, 2014.

The UDA-RT company, Green Miles, the country has been denied the special permit for breaking up in the country by concentrating on reasons which are not correct, a decision that is causing them to come out in the country and therefore, the country lost billions of money through revenue collection.

That situation is involved with performance by the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Lazaro Nyalandu, who is alleged to have some of the executives in his ministry that it continues to cost a government where he is involved in controlling the fight between him and some senior officials in the ministry.

This newspaper in its investigation led by various documents, has noted the trap that was parked against the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, due to a conflict between Rozay and private companies, inside the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism.

In the middle of that conflict, sure reports indicate that Tanzania will lose billions of money that is supposed to be collected due to prominent doctors from the United Arab Emirates, after the companies that are trusted and in the region were forced into a special permit for transporting passengers.

The cause of the crisis.

According to several documents, Minister Nyalandu is alleged to have been unable to give a decision that could destroy the United States of America, Saum Wengert and (WS) against Tanzania Company, Green Warriors of Limited.
Among the conflicts that are there between those primary companies is the decision by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, in the year 2011, to distribute tourist attractions to its stakeholders for the period of the year 2013-2018.

In that decision of controlling the importation of wildlife in Sumbawanga Town, Lake Region, which is Lake Nsalaga and South Africa for the first level in Lake Victoria SCA North 'which was carried out by Saum Wengert and (Who Sangho).

It is as a result of that conflict, different steps were taken which they did not tell him (S that took the decision to request the court to give any one-day order to protect its operations, an order that was issued on May 29 until September 2013, when they had already started on May 29 to September 2013 when they were unable to stop its activities.

Reports indicate that after September 30, last year, WWS even so they gave a case the court requesting to leave the court to leave and leave on the mountain which they had not allowed to fall into the Lake Tanganyika Valley.

However, the court has thrown out the request by putting consent not in the primary and about their request to be allowed to cater for the court set aside, it does not have the authority to provide reliable permits in America.

Nyalandu thanking him.

Due to a long distance of that issue, together with advice from some of the specialists from the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, who is alleged to be the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Nyalandu has been silent for making a decision that is going on to the Green Resources and Tourism Company that is owned by the Wiwa company.

The advice was given by concentrating on the wildlife law and regulations of illegal immigrants.

The government lack of shillings.

The conflict on a certain amount also, because a big foundation is claimed to measure the ministry of foreign affairs and international cooperation led by the Minister Bernard Membe, that through his letter on June 12, this year, represented the ambassador of the United Arab Emirates, that is supposed to receive the popular guests from those countries that are committed a special permit for controlling it.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, from the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, it was noted that two major reasons for not giving a special permit to prevent it.

Between those reasons, the first one is an issue of Lake Tanganyika Valley where the famous visitors from United Arab Emirates want to go through fighting for tourism, its conflict should be done by the court and therefore, giving a permit to intervene in the Court of court.

However, the weaknesses of that first reason, according to the experts on law issues whose names are being reserved for now, it is that which is in court is not a blockade and Mujahideen which is the normal process of it.
