
What politics is what?
October 30th, 2014.

We see the politics that is accompanied with great use of money and that for a citizen to participate in the leadership now, it has the meaning of using a lot of money "to buy the" leadership.
And by giving out words of Philip Mangula, these days the leadership is like the auction, with a great sign.

And so, politics is what we don't see this question.
"I want to mention a few mistakes which many times make the union be stable and you unable to fulfill its purpose and if you remove human rights because of things like the floods, in the whole country to shine, drought, and so many problems are there from the fish ones.
"A question that comes from the time after the same time," our whole state will be if someone thinks and Tanu was established through her personal benefits and it's like Tanu was made up of him that if he will not accept to be a member, or a leader, then Tanaka will help him as a member, or a leader, then Tanaka will help him as a member.
He is very happy that Tanu is involved with the need of the community in general.

But for a person of that kind, even if Tanu is fulfilling his purpose of the community, he will see that he is a union that has no reason because he did not meet all the need of his soul!
As the members of Tanu, especially leaders, they don't want our party's responsibility to the needs of their community, but they should mention the judgment on the needs of their soul themselves, that party will not last the party members of that type. "

Teacher Nyerere is continuing to get a penalty so that the other parts of the world, and which is a bad disease, it's a very bad disease, it's just a bad rule by Tanu says that I am not true.
Fitr that it is blaming each other, but we have still members who are big, to discover ourselves, "(JK Nyerere.
"We go to the mockery," 1962.

More than 50 years later, that is today, there is still a teacher so as to be read and eat with each other being keen inside and outside that party he was participating in front of CCM.

However, the teacher was ready to send the mockery, and we are not seen, when we know it, the same way to see the mistake.
Because the political party is a collection of people with ideology, purpose, the aim of the objectives to be dealt with by leaders and its members. It is difficult to have a long time caused by people with different ideology and not to agree with the purpose and primary goals.
Do not want to have so important, can't be able to have regulations that will be followed.
That is a political party in the country, but it has not been a collection of groups of people with goals, purpose and the aim of getting under a shadow of the "ruling party."
We need to have a culture of political parties with transparency and fact that in politics, the truth and transparency is very important things, and right now, politics is a argument and not a person who has contributed to issues before they should be presented.

We should build a culture of learn to listen to the issues that are given, we cannot give an issue and to agree or refusing it without caring about our relationship and the bill.
We should learn to build a motion and even to demolish other issues, with the strength of the issue, not to do his work.

And we shall think the effects that come from politicians with a private goals to vie for power without having a basis of not supposed to lead the rules to lead them, they will be ready to do anything, without favoring any other.
They did not believe in politics because we do not know their home, ideology, goals, purpose and the aim of the party to remain with the party, and they do not want to be a big challenge to the community.
It is true that democracy and peace in the community may get, without a few unable to get the requirements of many.
However, after the discussion, after the election, a few who failed to fail is supposed to do that if the existence of freedom and rights in discussion and even the elections.
However, for them to fail, they don't accept their rights to continue believing in what they believe in, democracy will give them rights to these people and the truth gives our responsibility to improve their thoughts, until many of them have agreed.
