
President John I'm ready for discussions.
And that is not true.
The leaders of Correa scored by the national discussion of the national discussion, while President Uhuru Kenyatta said that he is ready for talks but they are being done through the same way.
The special member of parliament Doctor Oberlin Kisanga explaining to the leader of the Wama Party, Kalalami, said that the death of the first lady of Mister Raila Odinga, Raila Odinga, said that the death of the first son of Mister Raila Odinga, Raila Odinga, which was brought together with the leaders and Kenyans of every team was a good opportunity for consent.
I see that due to the death of his name is to participate in the effects, and today.
This is what we used as we want this time we want to discussion.
I request that we continue to promote this relationship even after the burial takes place, there is no need to continue improving the parliament and court, "said Mister Musomba.
That former vice president was seen to have involved in violence that they witness recently in parliament and the case that is in court to oppose the new law of security.
Doctor Oguda, he wanted the death of Dar es Salaam to support Kenyans like this was witnessed yesterday, President Kenyatta said that his Deputy William Ruto, had Kenyans from different stations when they arrived at the All SELEKT program, Nairobi in mass.
"The death of discussion has been done together without caring about the political issues and this is what we want at the discussions. I request for those efforts to continue from here," said Doctor Ogano.
When he was contributing to speak, President Kenyatta said that even he is ready for talks and even so, he said it is good for those talks to be done in state where people they will move to each other.
"Discussion is a thing that can be done.
Even I am ready for Kenyans to be one thing, but we need to be people to listen or not each other, "said Mister Kenyatta.
At the time of giving their condolences to the family of Mister Odinga, who complained that the deceased was facing a person who does not know yourself or political foundations.
Deputy President, William Ruto, praised the youth that he doesn't know the boundaries for politics or tribe, "he visited two times in front of my last year we agreed to talk about normal issues.
Although we're very different side of politics and they've never seen the borders of the political, "said Mister Ruto.
A few leader in the Senate's parliament, Mister Moses Wula has said that though they died while in the youth, his heart and clean up his actions will not be released.
The body of the deceased has arrived in that church at eight at ten o'clock in the afternoon, will be buried tomorrow at the Stade de Janeiro.
