
On Tuesday, December 30th, 2014.

Two years of being known as' mother 'has a big training.

When I decided to take a decision to share responsibilities with my wife, I did not know how the decision raised me and giving me the new views of my family and my wife to continue working and help them any time he is going to.

I have said, "change" and it is not good to help I receive the ones that in many communities seem to be in one day and therefore I had already started a class one day and therefore I was also ready for another day before yesterday and therefore I was also ready for another day of the school.

The decision was difficult and easy for one time and it was difficult because I had to sit together with my friend and I decided to see if I decided to see Mister I decided to be Mister Pengo, the issue of the issue of all the primary services to the children.

Since he was born up to today, two years later, I have done all new duties as a mother to sleep at each other and to make sure that our vehicles in a good state will be repaired at time, to make corrections on time.

In addition to that normal responsibilities of managing discipline such as well as a mother, if you remove the responsibilities of the work and continue to bring income to the other people and continue to bring income to any time, where I have found yourself I am happy about it.

Two years, then you have training a lot of things that even if I decided to think I can fill the book.

First, it has touched me the respect and you need the only thing on the mother.
Other times like men when we see the mother can sell a child and put it up, watch it up on night, to cook and clean up without knowing what I have been true, but on how I have seen it is true, but on how I have seen it is true, but what I believe is very important to do more than anything related to your interests.

The child comes back to the father is easy to say "go with their mother" or not the whole.
Most importantly make this request, "the child is known professionally as she does not want to do everything to cause violence to an extent that if a musician me believe that this is a scandal that he decided to look for assistance to" their mother. "
And the truth without caring when the mother comes to take a child, will visit the child to visit, the child will agree with a musician when she went to play with a girl, when the father went to play with a child who was found while a mother ran away.
He took a time but the mother was able and later the father gave that child to me is against that.

I have committed an issue or, the ones that Baraka together with him have passed through the same-old network until now he can say "no are there and said.
"I don't like to go to," I have seen how our mother have been forced to be patient (Divine Kweka). It is a patient that doesn't care for a time, a place or even if the child can cause violence in the market, at the road, and even if our mother can cause violence in the market.

In all this child's taking the father's name! TE) you can even ask you like the father, we have the right to give me our names because we have made them to welcome him or even to play with her mother's responsibilities.

The second issue which I have learned and this is very clear, it's close to the mother and child who at a large extent, I believe that I can be between the father's service provider and the child. Baraka has been close to me because those children are very close to their mother and the child.

Baraka Dumu is the father of the father, praising God, "when I told her mother he is going to perform well and even when I was very close to me, therefore I have learned that there is very close to you, but I have also explained that the feelings of you can't return home.

My close friend has also been there by Tony and me more, since he was small and I have also worked well and I don't have a very good example, then I believe it has become very good and to try to pay for his own kind.

At the end of the very high level and that has been changed even us should understand the truth of God, this one can't understand more so that I do not know more, and I can say I am happy and say I am very happy and that I can enjoy God as a child.
I think about the concept of having God's reputation or (FGM).

When I listen to this line from the Bible I believe that I have got a lot of much, maybe he got lost during a short time, maybe he has gotten a lot for example, an example of God is a musician, especially because of many languages of the sex of God is reported.
"He hurts me or" Ban Hashim "if it is in English, it does not mean that Swahili does not have this matter so that you can't see what talked about by a woman or a woman even if it is mentioned.
I tell ourselves, ask for forgiveness, you should be patient, caring about how they are involved with believers so that God can be involved in us to all of us - men and women.

It's because I have promised some of my friends that the end of the year I will write a bit about this because I expected to be Shaw of Allah to go back to work early in the year and these things we change them.
I have learned many and I continue to learn together with all its challenges, I cannot change anything because of this two years, it has been my true!

It's because when we get in the new year, I give a challenge to my fellow father who have young children or even when I believe it is possible to have at least one week or even so I believe it is possible to have at least one week or even though I believe it is possible to have at least one week or even though I don't have a problem even though I don't have a problem, then I don't have a problem.

The biggest challenge in a mother is to believe that the father have decided to take that responsibility to my wife, he got a little problem even if I was in the past, but even when I am happy to write this responsibilities and not to try to sell their children in the hands of their father.

This is true and it is important to know that they are not there like women and we are not known as women, and therefore we are learning from what I would like and we can see why we can be seen and we can see if we are done by what we can have.

I finish with you by giving his own honor to all the men who have found themselves like me because of different reasons, it was given to children or left with their colleagues, but I believe that there is no more time to get "the father when he decided to become a very long time.

This article has been written by Elder Akilimali, a blogger and a famous writer in social media networks in Tanzania has been sent away from him.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
