
The plan wants TIB to stimulate development.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

The Minister for Finance and Planning, Doctor Philip Mpango has officially launched the board of directors of the Development Bank (TIB) and said the expectations of the government is to see that bank is encouraging the development in all the important sectors of developing industries in the country.

That board has been made due to the appointment made by President John Magufuli that took place in July this year, Doctor Mpango said the government wants to see that bank is encouraging the development in the improvement of industries so as to achieve the expected goals, especially to ensure that Tanzania becomes a country of the middle economy that depends on industries.
He said in the previous years the bank carried out their responsibilities, an issue that contributed to the establishment of various industries including clothes, skin and its products, fighting for many others.
He said that it is good for various services that will bring success in the operation of industries, such as markets are important to move forward and be considered.
He also wanted TIB to have strategies to expand the activities and projects that are producing employment in large numbers in the sector of small and medium industries and in business agriculture.
"I have great faith with this board, I wish you the responsibility of improving reliable strategies and come up with a sustainable solution of small capital, the procedure of borrowing, collecting debts and ensure that the loans are paid according to the procedures given," he said.
He said that the government is ready to receive advice of the board that aims at enabling the bank to be a stable pillar for economic development and the nation.
Previously, the Acting Executive Director of TIB, Charles Mwijage explained the challenges facing the bank as the smallness of the capital, the need for funds to prepare projects, long procedures of availability of permits for government institutions.
The new chairperson of that board Professor Palamagamba Kabudi, promised Minister Mpango that they will work with professionalism of high level and to implement the directives made in order to fulfill the expectations of the government and who were chosen.
