
What unites them broke down.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Zanzibar.

It has been reported, 20 October, 2016.

The Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (EALA) has said that it will take stern legal action against illegal immigrants of Hanansif, where he is in the Central Region of Unguja who live in trees or accumulating human resources that are affecting them, including stones.

That has been said by the Minister of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Fisheries, Hamad Rashid Mohammed, when he spoke with the citizens that live in the neighboring areas of that forest including Jomo, Dunga and Cheusi.
He said that the reserve of the park does not be careful according to the reserve law where there are regulations put in place and agreed with the citizens that live in that forest.
He said it's something sad to see the citizens who have agreed with the laws of protecting the forest and some of them are members of that committee, but you missed him from his destruction.
The director of forests and Mali that do not get restored, Yussuf Haji Kombo, said he is disappointed with the law and all the regulations of the forest and its use arising from the agreement of citizens that are facing the forest.
He said that the forest is important if it will be used well and that the citizens have a great opportunity of getting resources that are available in accordance with the primary agreement.
He gave an example that, some of the villages have used that reserve for causing various animals including put up and bring money for an agreement with investors in the procedure that is needed for the action of the law.
Some of the citizens admitted to attack that forest and bought wood for business.
The head of land grabbing in the southern region of Unguja, Haji Haji confessed the existence of environmental destruction that is being done by citizens that are facing the reserve.
According to Chief Executive Officer of Junction center, the citizens of the villages that are accused of the reserve of the reserve have been collecting taxes for the use of business, including women, while other citizens who were stones for the purpose of business and therefore forced the lives of that reserve.
