
Tigo customers will be given a dividend of 6 / 6.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been released, October 25th, 2016.

The Tigo phone company has announced another quarter year offer of 67,888 billion shillings through Tigo Pesa users, being the 10 times in a period of the phone company to distribute that benefits to its users of financial services through mobile phones.

Speaking at a press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the head of financial services of Tigo Mobile Phone Company, Ruan Swanepoel said that in general, the company has already paid its users of financial services through a phone a total of 38,9028 billion shillings being for the quarter year since the launch of the service in July 2014.
This is the third time for this year to Tigo to pay a share to its customers.
Swanepoel said that in the third quarter of this year, the amount of benefits organized and reached nine percent have been contributed to one percent from the second quarter where it has been contributed to a large extent and a good level of interest in various development funds.
"This benefits of shares is paid to private customers, sales agents and other business partners from Tigo which everyone receiving its payment according to the value of the electronic funds within their Tigo Pesa accounts," he explained.
Moreover, he also pointed out that the great increase in the level of share has been contributed by the increase of benefits, the improvement of the market environment and the growth of Tigo Pesa service as the main source in the increase of benefits especially in the group of business people.
Tigo Pesa currently has a big network of more than 50,000 people.
He said that as it was there, the share of the customers will be aired by checking the average of every Tigo Pesa customer service in their phone accounts and added that this plan of distributing benefits has been directed to the Central Bank regulations that was released on February 2014.
In the year 2014, Tigo Tanzania was the first phone company in the world to distribute benefits that are based on phone money that are in the accounts of sponsorship for the quarter year of its customers.
