The listener is in our discussions with today's discussion and today we will continue with the youth concerning the whole issue.
Maybe what should they do so that reproductive education can be used by more transparency and looking at this article I am called to get them.
Follow me I am called to Msangi, I would like to contribute to this topics which they should do so as to give birth keenly.
On my part I was I see that education is good.
It will be given.
In different ways.
If songs is found.
And the art of the exhibition because I am saying that it is a history in those ways, because they are very many Tanzanians, they don't like to read the newspapers and we love you so much to check the movies.
Music for that artists do not want to get into those ways to educate reproductive health, it will be very easy to reach the citizens or the community in general for someone to write the book, but when I am putting you, other schools have been expelled from their homes because family planning is told to be the child.
You tell me about Mister a woman is this one but when you know if you are waiting for my children to be careful, therefore we thank God for instance, I think this one and then I think this is because these children need to get pregnant and even when I think this is that these children because these children need to prevent them and even if this is now the children because these children need to use them.
Because then the way to place the seeds I hope, therefore the child needs to know that this is things.
Who does it love me, if it is not that these hours here I take this, you can get pregnant if you're going to do.
Since small, we will begin teaching things that yes, we will be looking for more because the child is going.
Try to try that how come up until how come, you who think you give education early a child that is in bad here, I did this is bad than to get the child as he has been big.
And when it comes out, you will not know anything related to you.
He can decide the court earlier he is eating that man.
So, they do not use the way to protect yourself, not knowing how.
Try to try to avoid sexual abuse.
There is the way that is why education has to be small, the late God is when he is.
This thing does not be prosecuted?
It is something long.
My part I see that they are supposed to be distributed well in schools, the students to get to get there are supposed to consider because they are taking this education to African education, we did not understand what he didn't have so much like that.
It is a person knows that?
This is going on.
You love you.
How is it?
To prevent pregnant that you look at your day?
Why is it?
If he is continuing with someone he does not know.
For now, the elderly don't believe in all the diseases we are being taught while in school or even me I have helped me but I have not know how these things should be given keenly there.
So that people can't understand what happens up to me.
If you go back on Wednesday, I was called by Frank Mvungi.
Dimakatso much desired the women that you are not able to invest in giving the preparations to shivered.
Others are fear that their daughters inform them on how to prevent it.
In general and also their daughters shouldn't be afraid, we become a mother who don't know her mother but we should not think they don't see their mother what should I do when you are blocking us.
When the news will I commend and listen to pregnant when I'm in school then I'm in school and I think I think there is no parent who will be unable to invest.
And every woman is happy and we should make sure that our daughters could not be demolished because it is everything.
When a girl when you get pregnant, you will have forgotten your white house and it's also the great job to the government and the children in general because the government providing health education to give birth to the head.
Because you know many girls, when you give you for lack of education.
And does it mean to say God speak?
Just where you are close to you what is swelled.
You can't know what you are and therefore, I found change William.
Patriotism in context, I am supposed to accumulate 41 people since he was no doubt, you find the fee in the morning when he doesn't know the wall that goes through a wall that doesn't make them close to their daughters which doesn't sell their crops and everything that goes for a lot of reasons.
Percent of girls successful is very small, you find the drugs for the best ten, and there is one of the reasons you get your blood because I get pregnant in the school if you find the drugs, there are people who need to be true.
We are being given a lot and right now meaning is the issues of family you will find we get pregnant what is not allowed.
But if you feel like we feel like we can enjoy the education that we are not known as the daughter of the girl, already the education he got in relation to the issues of reproductive health, you ask ourselves that he gets enough because in school I have learned and also my mother did not lie!
We are going on the side of stem cells, while the initiative has helped the person you know this one when I was pregnant when I was very happy that there is a vibrant listener or when I think this is something there has these effects that, my technical bench came out and I love me.
There are women who are complaining of us so much, their children can't jump.
He was talking about this issues, that is with transparency and told someone that every time the women you're talking to me because another is her daughters and scholars and cannot tell someone that since another time even when he is happy to tell him what he did.
And the child that you're close to the women's mother has talked about women that they cannot get to know that the child is.
When you go to you, it is the way you will give you the truth that there is this issue and this needs to use what they should do so that you can be bad.
Currently, it's only a challenge until in the next season, I am very happy that the child is not supposed to make sure that a girl does not make sure that if you want to make sure that you do not make sure that it does not make sure that you can't ensure that it's a lot of money not to make sure that it's a lot of money.
In order, you find another person who has not seen to get a little of what is okay, because of not having a youth team under the same time you find the mother and he does not give education to the child and I give you the poor, it is like a expert.
I think about what they should do so that how many ways we ask you are open about it is a lesson to more stories that her daughters Wasagaji.
In Iringa region at least little, even if he didn't come to all villages in the government.
Non-governmental organizations did not want to serve us.
To take education in the villages but still in schools, it is still a big problem for now, it is a must.
Then many people think that your students are safe.
And the availability of.
That is why those who don't understand.
And Leticia Mosore and the problems they are also.
Africa is going on.
Now how is how to be allowed now like five.
We must help them to make this to get this opportunity to start in primary and secondary education and colleges and to continue to teach doctors, to go and teach their job and go to teach them, we can't have a solution.
What is seen there are people.
But the?
You can sell it with one doctor and another?
I thank people who came out, then I become a doctor and you make sure that you do their activities.
So as to pass the age of things like that, it is not a must that America has gone to patients in the hospital.
But his meetings.
But it is possible despite many people now, it will help us want the interests you cannot see me.
Without anything.
