
What does it mean to me what should I do?
I am a 34 year old man, I was born in a family listening keenly, but in life I have working on our home areas and the lives of our home and the work of our home is doing everything to see me.
I have reduced later, I believe it is due to me being the poor and many lovers want women with money.
What can I do if you can't fulfill your heart, I think you have not got a true lover who loves you, if there are people who love their fans, to arrest the vehicles, to build a house, you will be responsible.
It is meeting with fraudsters who are doing lovers, be careful, they will end up with the meaning that there are no better husband to come, but in a right time to make the right decision at the right time.
What can I do to do?
There was a woman who missed a lot of joy, finally I think it has a problem so much even when you get problems.
What should I do to communicate with Mussa Tabora to put my friend when he is not fear, you should wait and be close to him for a long time.
If you see us to do things that they put in addition, including dancing in a phone, swimming, run away in the evening and I will answer her with her lover, but I was with him I will answer him and see him too.
Chiku Tabora was leading or we lead you if he did not follow me if he went to him, it means that you're close to each other and be satisfied with the behavior of someone instead of great shape and attracting more because every person has its own behavior.
With your lover you believe because even men maybe they have the women who believe in front, it does not live with an issue, you do not know your body and you feel it is hard to get married.
I was with several women at different times, every time I will take a step of getting married to them get married and in the end we leave.
When I thank you and asked me to get married we must know that we don't know if you are supposed to get married, therefore, religious, and the procedure of life is a must because there is no wife to understand even if you are wisdom.
