
DC Kibaha, warned farmers.

It has been written by John Gwao.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

District commissioner of Kibaha in the Coastal Region, Assumta Mshama speaking during the transition period for farmers of that district, not to produce livestock in farms for farmers, while the government is looking at how to end conflicts between them and pastoralists.

He added that in his office in Kibaha town when he met with the leaders of breeders after his directive has urged farmers to reduce their livestock according to the areas they were set.
That Head has given one month from September 15 to October 15 this year for farmers to go to their areas to reduce conflicts between them and farmers.
He has said that during the transition period, before another decision is taken, should not worry about livestock to farmers and if they will do that, a bull will be going into farms for farmers and farmers who have been used in their crops.
The Member of Parliament of Kibaha Rural Constituency, Hamlyn Jumaa, wanted the areas that were set aside for the sake of breeders so as to reduce that conflicts which at the moment it is disrupting the district.
Jumaa said that if those areas will be stopped, it will help to reduce livestock to enter into farmers farms and cause violence in peace.
The director of the Council of Kibaha district, Tatu Seleman, urged the farmers to sit in their areas which were set aside.
Seleman said that, the areas that were set aside for the sake of breeders not do not use and need to sit with farmers, an issue that has caused the misunderstanding between those two sides.
The secretary of the organizations of pastoralists in the country, Magoza village, said that now the farmers allow changes to modern chicken by depending on the size of the area.
Makoye said, livestock has been many years while in the area of looking for a small area, a situation that causes conflicts from time to time between farmers and pastoralists and also requested there to be the involvement of decisions on livestock.
The breeder Mkingie has said that it is good for the boundaries that had been done between farmers and breeders so as to reduce that conflicts since those sides have been signed.
That session has been made after the head of that district Assumta Mshama speaking about one month to October 15, all farmers have gone to the areas they were allocated together with reducing livestock to avoid conflicts between farmers and pastoralists.
