That CCM was defeated in UKAWA which is what?
Brightiles 19, 2015.

Politicians, analysis, analysis, journalists and even ordinary citizens are saying that this year's election will be historic because of the great awareness of citizens and not the secret that is currently underway and the ones for the citizens want to change.
As it appears to be a lot of Tanzanians for a long time, they have been wanting changes in administration and even so in the past, due to the weaknesses of parties, the weaknesses of candidates and thoughts that the Revolutionary Party (CCM) has about the illegal immigrants.
This year, the situation is different.
This year, there is every reason to believe that changes are possible, there is a union of opposition parties, the president of the United Republic of Tanzania (Ukawa), from Edward Lowassa in the ruling party and to enter parliament, and then be appointed to be the candidate who represents Ukawa, has increased many faith in citizens that changes are possible.
While getting to Lowassa Ukawa's strength and the energy to move to Ukawa, together with Lowassa, many members of CCM have asked the party members to join Ukawa parties in what is called the floods or, and the big beneficiaries of the same time, they have been vying.
When getting to Lowassa, Ukawa has also caused many people to believe that someone who plays for CCM's victory and therefore he will relocate the tickets to join Lowassa by using a bandit and to join good citizens!
In our streets, the village will help people from all over the country, including the national security, the police force, the police force, the police force, and so I would be able to find out reports of CCM against Ukawa and therefore I would be able to maintain peace and work together with the commission to protect him.
All that is where all changes are not yet confirmed, thousands of people who are coming out in Ukawa's meetings by Lowassa in big towns of Mbeya, Mwanza, Dar es Salaam and Arusha provinces, while in every village everyone is doing changes so that we ask CCM to see them this year?
Private and I have been difficult to believe that the movement of Lowassa has a lot and opportunity to succeed but each one is a small business person, where everyone is a small business person, where everyone is in a small business person, "a woman doesn't know where we are waiting for," a woman feels she told me.
The day before yesterday I was speaking with one of my elders who are in my district, Tunduru district the first of more than 70 years now, he advised the me who are living here in Dar es Salaam, to give me the one who came out here in Dar es Salaam, to give me Lowassa just like fever, political parties which have risen up to 100 percent.
But for sure, it's a true person who does not need change, even so, the changes we're doing so much and bad luck.
However, my analysis is not a scholar and my short message have told me if we get faith of blindness, a problem of change, and what I know is that we get bad changes.
Experience shows bad changes we have ever happened in the world that many citizens who put faith in the movement like Ukawa and later people feel it would have had several primary reasons that I am not the first to talk about.
First, it seems to be Ukawa themselves by their followers that are led more with the desire of removing CCM more than the special agenda, but it is good because people do not have time because people do not use time to consider the changes that come from.
