The late God rest his house and relatives of her movies, the late does not lead the same beauty, my son and me?
This type of spread witnessed, what is the meaning that she is looking at, where she has bought a lot of time, he had bought a lot of time, he had bought a long time, therefore, I said it is enough to see you.
He has worked well and a spirit until he is going to come.
When I will do a person I have not arrived several youth forever and I see God is in the same time when I see me or even when this is not the one or even if I am not the one or even if I see you.
Ways of you are from Tanzania?
It hurts so much, you can't vote?
We have only said that it should be Mwalo even to the police now, they see you even if it has paid her.
Abort.
And you know what?
I cannot welcome him and the late God is now his question that is why you will end from.
Truly, they met me.
I hope.
What is bad?
When it is unable to say now by saying that sun does not depend on how to know, we know how many people know, when I see you, you know how many people do not see if you know your friends.
The late God rest his bus and I request it does not use that buses.
The late God rest his soul in everything to go back to each person, and he told me his brother's brother when I had now wants to go back where the late did not return.
Especially when he saw how he said, but he said at the vehicle, the things are finished all the sides, he knew what I want to know what I get, then I want them to know what I met with me, I want them to know what I want.
For now, we should have a life of asking for all the lives of asking for us that you want to use the language then Lucy and then comes back to him for what is it?
We are supposed to be able to play in Paul and they went to take them?
In the valley.
Following my corners that, it is expected to recover and now inside BoT has risen up inside here, I was looking for this season there.
We are not even at the same way, Mister I want to make minerals that was done.
Above, there is no reason that you have reached I have said to start very close to this time I'm coming from.
