
The governor, registrar of treasury at the dock.

September 22, 2016.

The governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Professor Benno Ndullu said that the registrar of treasury, Lawrence Mafuru, today are expected to rise in the dock at the Tanzania High Court to explain how the bank of Al-Square will lead the Ivory Coast company from 92 billion shillings.
The bank of BMM Bank is required to pay that company to an amount of money being the implementation of the main court that was released on June 27, last year.
According to that order given by the registrar of the High Court in Dar es Salaam recently, Projest Rwegasira, said that the senior officials in the government are required to ensure that they will take a order to pay that company to an amount of money otherwise they will be installed.
The implementation of that judgment is due to the case number 129 before 2009, where the M-Square company ordered to pay his factory and sold to the Star TV company for paying the loan that was borrowed by Coast, but he was unable to pay that loan.
BoT has been involved in that process as a result of being the responsibility of running that bank after being involved with knowledge of money in the country, Guests us.
Governor Professor Ndulu and registrar of treasury, Mafuru, they were required to arrive at the court on September 16th this year in order to inform the court how they will implement that court's order to pay those funds but they were presented in the court for the purpose of being given the implementation of the order for some time.
The request has been planned to be heard today by Judge Ama Isario Munisi, a high court in the region of Dar es Salaam.
The conflict started after the Ivory Coast company will be able to take a loan from that bank and to fail to return the loan for a long time according to the contract, that is when the bank of Al-Square received all the property of the company including vehicles and the factory and sells them in the Bongo Flavor company.
After that step, Ivory Coast company started a case to court to oppose that decision.
The High Court of Dar es Salaam has issued a judgment on July 27, 2015, where the court revealed that bank to pay the Ivory Coast company, approximately 21 billion shillings equivalent to 56 billion shillings due to an increase in 92 billion shillings due to an increase of 21 billion shillings.
