The constitution should we need to vote?
Kristen 14, 2014.

Still, I have not seen the logic of the group of UKAWA to boycott the constitutional parliament especially after phone calls from various stakeholders used to return to parliament.
Still, I have not understood that in UKAWA they did not use the procedures that they had set for themselves, together with their colleagues, in the constitution of constitutional parliament to speak about things that have not been satisfied with.
They could follow those procedures and to fail, maybe if they have had a good argument and so as to boycott the parliament.
Likewise, I have not understand that UKAWA has been unable to continue fighting in parliament until the end of the end, and then wait for the last step of opinion polls in this process to present their cases to citizens if they have not been satisfied.
More than that, I have not understood that in UKAWA they see the issue of government structure, it is an important issue more than another that involve the interests of the citizens and then it has been possible to make some of their agenda and then continue to make corrections on the previous agenda.
Personally I believe that the action of UKAWA is doubt against the process of writing a new constitution and also being accused of being accused of the citizens and the nation.
Ukawa are running a strike because they believe that they can send CCM part in the third part of the number of delegates so that CCM can be unable to pass the constitution and because that I believe that is a bad foundation in future politics.

Earlier, CCM also decided to vote for refusing to reject the structure of three governments so that they can protect UKAWA and the constitution come to grow.
In the most Swahili language, we said that UKAWA which has been set up in Art "(put back). Later, UKAWA or one of the participants of that union getting into power they will follow up that same example, they put it open and non-governmental activities.

The time the parliament to make the constitution is going on with his work while UKAWA which has been made to ask for that parliament to stop its activities in order to prevent citizens' money while also known that parliament has no number of enough delegates that can pass the constitution.
That call has been made by the activists, scholars, politicians, including CCM and even ordinary citizens.

The call of the kind that is directed to the government, the leadership of that parliament and the ruling party is not to assume the little of billions of funds to run the constitutional parliament and later revealed that so as the number of the delegates cannot pass it, it is forced to prevent it from billions of money.
CCM will have a great victory if they can make it a new constitution even without UKAWA which they have given legal requirements.
But it is not easy to continue with that process while they put it stuck because of failing to fulfill the legal requirements if this situation has reduced, what can be done to save this strategy?
Three things that can be done are in addition to stop the whole exercise of lack of new constitution, getting into the debate that will give consent to vote or run the opinion polls of all citizens to decide the things that fail to be reached.
To leave or stop the new constitution exercise while billions of money they have already been used is a step that will make many people and it is a shame to a nation because Swahili people are saying that the water is very humiliating.

Likewise, without doubt, that political step will lead you a chance and to save CCM as a political party, if a new constitution will be available, and if the biggest part of what is in that draft will be accepted, CCM have a lot of losing.
The improvements on election laws including the right to oppose the presidential results in court, the existence of the free commission and the private candidate is some of the issues that can be used to protect people of political issues, they believe that the party has been used to find solutions to them.
If we see you to leave the plan of writing a new constitution for now, it is not the right time, the involved with the HIV virus did not decide to discuss and remove it in things that do not see especially that of the government structure.
When the objection has been done in two or three governments, the truth is that for the right time to be found, more thoughts are needed so as to look for third ways that will not tolerate any two sides.
If we think about this fact, I decided to move forward and then check ways of resolution of those problems, we can destroy the alternative system of a two-term government, but it will also meet the needs of strengthening the union and the same time to solve the existing challenges.
