
What should we do to do, blame, ignorance, and lack.
A human being of a groom who is born with a great ability to think and to expand things and various challenges of life.
He has called on the ability to change any challenge in front of him being an opportunity to bring him joy, benefits and development in his life.
Psychology lecturer from Mzumbe University in America, Professor Paul Wandili, and various researchers are explaining that the ability of a human body in fighting crime has approximately 5 million and a half million shillings.
Our computers we are used in the office and homes have the ability to save a crime from Gigg's 20 until 1000 shillings only.
So that they should be understood that, these experts know that all documents which are available in the United Republic of America have been placed on the electronic system that is estimated to be the size of Gigg.
If the brain of a human beings will have a work of recording if you have a camera of taking music pictures on television, these experts are explaining that Gigg got two million and a half hours, they would have enough to look for those music photos in television for a period of three consecutive hours.
This means that you will be forced to leave television about those videos of the video for a period of more than 300 years in order to succeed in Mkabakuli.
If you end the various challenges facing our nation, and the way we are able to deal with the challenges is clear that many especially the youth have not noticed, most of the brain, we are born with the Almighty God.
At the whole world suffering from asking and asking them that the country is small and of more than 120 minutes to continue living in peace, unity, and love while nations do not live near the blood due to violence that are still unknown.
The worst is that we continue to answer the blame from the ones known as urologists even in the environment that we are supposed to take action without involved the government's support, we have been unable to make sure that we have in bringing economic development and instead we have met with the world in a draw.
While the world has been saying that the world has been surprised by the three point out of seven in the African continent, to be used to be only one nation, while Africa has more than 50 nations and the European soccer teams.
Mount Kilimanjaro, Ngorongoro Conservation Area, Serengeti National Park, is among the new mistakes of Africa, with the Nile river which is among the great success, his source is Lake Victoria which is in Tanzania.
Tanzania has roads of Pangani Secondary with a size of 5600 million shillings (size is equivalent to Rwanda and Burundi) together.
We have the valley of Ruvuma river which is a size of 52,589 kilometers (more than 700 million shillings) because we have the Lake Tanganyika Valley with 338,667 that are in the Belgium nation!
We have the Rukwa lake region with a size of 88,000 thousand shillings (more than 2,284 kilometers), we have at the Lake Tanganyika valley and the Lake Victoria area, Manyara and Benitu.
It's a true truth that we have been unable to do justice to our nation, although the behavior of our good behavior like the nation of Tanzania, still we have never done measures against us that we are the owners of Mount Kilimanjaro, Serengeti National Park or the famous islands of Zanzibar.
We can't tell you the world that the Victoria, Tanganyika and Nyasa to invest in Tanzania, though we are requested only one hundred thousand tons of fish, we will end to him he has a lesson?
We can say that the Tanzanite mineral are not in any part in the world more than Tanzania, though we are requested the sales statistics of those minerals we have told the Tanzanian nation that is leading in selling Tanzanite in the world market and followed by Kenya?
We start where he started and let's old human beings more than all over the world when they were found in Oliver Tanzania, if the tourists were able to see the truth of issues that involve the big groups of youths while they are holding papers in the results of the European soccer matches (popularly known as Kiango) so as to get income without giving them.
Gerald Guninita has said that a diploma in rule of administration has self-employed in the agricultural activities of 7167114546.
