This is the first of the death of CCM that was participating?
Jide 29, 2015.

I agree to continue the debate about the claims that Edward Lowassa did not work on the official process of CCM in Dodoma town, but the new report of the political issues that I'm in line with the situation has changed.
The step by Edward Lowassa moving to the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA) has come after a long time that the member of parliament of Monduli, had left his party not to go up because she has left his party to get the presidential candidate.
Now, it has been true that, Edward Lowassa has decided to move to opposition and he has decided to fly the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) without doubt that it is an earthquake that can change many things in the country and to stop a historical agreements that will not be avoided.
Leave for Lowassa to open doors for Lowassa to open doors, he has through the Revolutionary Party (CCM), finally they came to power, after that it has done this country (well and badly) since they see Uhuru last year 1961, today I found the possibility of being demolished and one of its senior officials.
I have tried to questioned some people close to the parliamentary leadership about this step that is not normal because they have agreed (or don't accept to be one of the one, "a list of pain" in the famous meeting of the Mwembe Yanga, Yanga, in Dar es Salaam city.
The details that I got is that their step has been caused by the political requirements for this time, those who know the strength of Lowassa in the local society, and they believe that the energy will be joined by the energy that their opponents have already been clear.
About the allegations of corruption, I have been told that Lowassa has been made that "the sheep has been made," the sheep on the left is Lowassa, and all the others are clean, who are false and how to continue enjoying the country while being accused of one person alone.
One of them added, "if you look at all the past scandal, you can say that they are Lowassa or even if we are said concerned with Richmond, although it has failed to say anything, you can say that he was involved with autism or Tegeta Escrow or DealGreen Initiative '.
The Chadema member of parliament is saying that their party and also Ukawa have found opportunities for strengthening CCM, a step that will have great benefits to all citizens, it is better to use a club which is ready and have shown its weight among the citizens.
Lowassa attended the session of the parliamentary committee that took place on Sunday night, and that's when the decision to be done really to be taken against Ukawa and that the presidential candidate is claiming that the new constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania has been unable to respect.
One of the agreements that came out as part of the parliamentary leadership and Lowassa is the importance of increasing the availability of that constitution that fell in the president's term, Jakaya Kikwete and his senior member of parliament would think that Edward Lowassa should enter the sign of the true changes and how they shouldn't jump.
This will be not the first time for cyber crime, in CCM, it has benefited from the opposition since competitive politics when he started in the year 1990 and he wanted to use that popularity to vie for the presidency through CCM party but he wanted them to use the popularity of the candidate to have a University of university and Mrema did not have.
Mrema has gone to a small party of NCCR-Mageuzi when it appears to have risen up, with great energy, he is facing the whole country, with CCM and his candidate Benjamin Mkapa, and ended up because the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere did a big campaign on behalf of the CCM candidate.
In the same year, CCM refused to become Doctor Wilhelmina R. Telack to be the parliamentary candidate of Karatu town, instead of him, his friend Mkapa who had failed and Slaa in the opinion polls in that party Doctor Slaa had gone to parliament to cause a lot of challenges that concern CCM up to today.
