
There are a lot of learn, even a size of pneumonia.
October 16, 2014.

Julius Nyerere, one of the 26 children of Mzee Nyerere Zito, who was the Chief Executive Officer, once stopped the leaders who were in power, after falling on his home on November 5, in 1985.
In general, in helping the leaders, "Mwalimu Nyerere, said that he was given a lesson so that the leadership has mistakes and therefore it is the first phase of the following phase, to promote the standards of the second phase to be legalized by the mockery.
The teacher used the language on the side of parliament, it is a language of leaders who are in the moment, he said the problem of leaders in the country is that they are doing to get good things that were done by the concerned phase and to stop what is good, you are doing a foolish thing. "
Those explanations of the teacher did not come back to some of the various documents for several weeks ago, the documents that concern various decisions which he ever made as the first President of the United Republic of Tanzania and even Tanganyika, a decision that maybe be among the good administration of his administration which should be suspended by other leaders who were given or those who follow after November 5, in 1985 when he disappeared.
Between that decision, it is a step of breaking the council of ministers and form another step, June 7, in 1967 and in his decision, Mwalimu Nyerere denied the size of the cabinet ministers from 15 ministers according to 11 ministers.
If you see the ones that were sacked in the office of the president together with the office of the two vice president, that is the first vice president and the second Vice President, ministers that joined one of the ministries were only 11 from 15 of the council of ministers that is swelled.
According to each other, is that in the office of President Nyerere, he appointed his skill of being given to Tumsifu Swai to be the first vice president of Zanzibar, Sheikh Aboud Jumbe, while the second Vice President of Zanzibar, Sheikh Aboud Jumbe being assisted by the second vice president of the president.
Nasima said that the names of those ministers who were sworn in so that the reader did not want your work hard, about the keenness of the selected ones in making public work hard, otherwise there is no worries at ensuring that those selected ones have changed the requirements of the public, otherwise there is no boundaries.
I would like to emphasize the meaning that my aim is to aim more here, apart from the names of the selected ones that I have explained, but it is a decision to the Mwalimu Nyerere leadership in reducing the size of the council of ministers.
Maybe before starting with 11 ministers.
Ministry of Lands, Housing and Water Development, Abdulrahman Kinana, the Ministry of Education, Solomon Elichilia Khamis, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Said Mongomongo when he visited the Ministry of Health and Tourism, Hasheem MkMakame and the Ministry of Health and Housing, Areas.
