
The Barclays Bank, Kinondoni district in the theft of honor.

Finally, the police force in the special region of Dar es Salaam has given a report of the theft that happened at the Barclays Bank, Kinondoni branch on April 15 this year, while the incident was planned within that bank.

In his report yesterday, the Commander of the region Suleiman Kova said 13 people including the manager of that branch and its operations manager are being held by the police on accusations of the theft of more than 500 million shillings.

Kova gave thanks to the money that had been identified as 392 million shillings of Tanzania, 55 million American dollars, 212,150 million pounds.

Kova mentioned the government to be taken by the police on those allegations as the manager of that branch, Almushefrei (28), a resident of Kimara Boncour.

He said in that theft, three quarter of all the money collected was taken a day before the incident claimed that the theft made by theft, with an aim of maintaining the theft and that there was different sessions of preparations to make the theft.

He said on April 15 this year, a day that theft is mentioned to be done, what happened is an event to complete those agreements.

"This event made a controversy since the beginning of we are going to inspect the scene area, because of April 14, the vehicle for carrying money to take the Central Bank was launched in that branch as usual but the money did not be given, it was a strategy to make that theft."

He said events in police have noted that the funds that were stolen from that bank was taken one day before the incident of making.

He said that police have succeeded to arrest one vehicle of Toyota in a place which is believed to be used in robbery and efforts to look for the second vehicle.

Kova said some of the suspects who were arrested were questioned, they confessed to be involved in the theft and they were stolen from being attacked by a little money that is part of a share.

"We have noted that some of the theft events in various banks should be done by the employees of those banks and its results, the police force came to blame that it does not make her work hard," he said.

The suspects were found.

Commander Kova mentioned other suspects who are set free by police to be Fredrick Lazaro (19) a resident of Manzese, Kakoma (31) resident of Kinondoni, Idd el Mhanga (29) a resident of Kinondoni, Sethi.

Others are Erasmus Rugarabamu (38) famous by the name 'management of Magomeni, Deo Olengurumwa (32) a resident of Manzese High School, Mohamed Mkonga (33), a resident of Kimara B Primary School, Lucy Lameck (33), resident of Tabata and Grace Tendega (39), resident of Kibaha in Pwani province.

Earlier the news reports.

In the previous event, it was explained that those criminals arrived at the bank on April 15 this year, at 3 o'clock Tanzanian shillings with two vehicles with gun shots, then entered into the bank to resolve the money that they had from the fund and run away.
