
"CCM does not have a plan to work with CUF.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Zanzibar.

It has been witnessed, 10th October, 2016.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) Zanzibar has said that it does not have a plan to sit on one of the talks with the Civic United Front (CUF) in an issue of general elections as well as the presence of a transition government since the repeat election, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein will be in power it was free and fair.

That was said by the deputy secretary general of CCM Zanzibar, Vuai Ali Vuai when he spoke to journalists about the report given by the director of foreign affairs of CUF, Ismail Jussa that CUF is ready to speak with CCM at the agenda of the previous general election.
Vuai said the general election was free and fair after the verification of ZEC and the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein has been selected to lead Zanzibar in a period of five years to 2020.
"Our members of CCM should not be afraid that there are no talks that are being done by CUF party about the general elections on March 20 this year, the election was free and there is no transition government," he said.
He informed that CCM is ready to speak with the party leaders in another agenda including bringing peace and harmony together with building the country and solidarity of the citizens of Unguja and Pemba.
He urged the members and the followers of CCM to remove fear about the decision by their opponents with its main aim is to try to stop the citizens as well as to build hope for their followers who have been selling them in a long time.
While clarifying more, Vuai said CCM together with its leaders are faced with strategies and four goals including managing the implementation of the CCM manifesto that was made by President John Magufuli together with President Shein, members of parliament and representatives.
Moreover, he said that for now, CCM is in the preparation of the elections of the year 2017 including putting good regulations that will supervise the implementation of the party.
Strategies and other goals are planning to prepare for the elections of the year 2020 and to make sure that the party is going on to rule the law according to the constitution of the party.
"That is the strategies and our goals to ensure we follow the manifesto of the party that put him in power, but we are also participating in general elections in the year 2017 and to ensure we are winning in the next general elections in the year 2020," he said.
The national chairperson of CCM, President John Magufuli in his two-day tour held in Unguja and Pemba, he urged citizens not to be afraid that Doctor Shein is the legal president of Zanzibar and the repeat election on March 20 this year was free and fair.
