
20 should be held by eating food related.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

More than 20 people including students of Literature in the village of Llongero village, Mwanga district, Kilimanjaro Province, have got the stomach diseases by diarrhea and vomiting in Kilimanjaro Province, they have got dirty diseases by diarrhea and vomiting in Kilimanjaro Province, they have got malaria diseases by selling and vomiting in Kilimanjaro Province.

The reports of the event explained yesterday that, those residents of Literature in the village of Lollipop, the students associated with poison during the religious graduation, that took place last Saturday in that village and is to include the students, parents and different brothers.
The regional police commander of Kilimanjaro Province, Wilfried Bela, confirmed the incident and explaining that after being taken to the village clinic, some were stolen from being beaten while 10, five out of them, continuing to get treatment at that clinic.
"It is true that there is true, there is a problem that happened the other day, Saturday (October 15), students of the secondary schools that took place outside the school (the day before yesterday) involved many foods and yesterday (the day before yesterday) that were issued to have been sent back," said Commander Mutta.
Mutabunga said that the injured were injured in the diarrhea and vomiting and they were taken to a village clinic for treatment.
"Recently, we have talked about five students and five other citizens who are continuing with their condition is good because we have talked with doctors, say they are continuing well and if it would have been different, the ones that would continue being affected at the health level," said that Commander.
He said that police are continuing to follow up on that issue and doctors are doing more investigation.
He said that the environment of that school's environment is safe and work continues as usual.
