
We talk to business people Mrs Fest a procedure to increase the price of products.

It has been written by I heard.

I was published today, 13th October, 2016.

For your business to continue to grow, it is a must to avoid things that can improve, including increasing the price every time you are doing so.

Many times the traders who want to get quick success without caring about the market, the market seems to increase the price of services and products so that action is not only that it affects the budget of the buyer, but even business itself with others.
Experts of business issues from the streets have said that if a businessman is in the area that enables the local market, he will have the ability to play "and the price of products or services that he gives to customers, without caring that those customers are holding on that amount.
Therefore, according to the network, it means that a business person has the ability to change the price to the way he knows it is difficult, especially considering that she desires to look for more in his business is profit.
The word to serve the customers, from a lesson that is given to the network is to ensure that those customers of services or products have no quick decision to improve products or services that are with high standards, more than any business person in the near area.
Part of the advice at the area of that network that depends on reasons for customers, both buyers and insisted that the shop is a restaurant or a certain business is saying.
"They will do that by continuing being your customers only, even if you're getting high prices on small products, because it has the qualifications, products and other services are not beneficial."
Among the qualifications that are mentioned by the network make sure customers continue to remain with the person or special service provider, it means that there is a probability of having a national and international standards, it means that there is a possibility of causing a customer or user, together with mental disabilities.
Other reputation are easily damaged, meaning, its packaging, has been done by considering the standards of modern packaging, so that they can be taken, even if it is for the arrest of several kilometers.
"There are products that cause a customer that cause a person that allows you to buy, when they look for them a problem of going down or even when it came out and how passed it stopped.
There are business people and producers who believe that what concern them is because of their products and not how the customer will face your business and moving to the neighborhood to search for alternative treatments, when you fall into the market and get married or to get married, "he said.
In short, it was stated that, some of the producers and business people have refused to change the price by being forced to change, without looking for issues such as the quality of services and products offered, an issue that affects the customers and try to convince them to deal with them.
For Tanzania, there are some of the services and products that its prices have been confirmed by the authorities with the responsibility of managing the transportation and water services, which the Surface and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA) led to control prices, together with other products, including oil and water, which will enable the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA) is controlling its prices.
We have been seen that despite having those authorities and other business people, business people who love quick funds, without considering the buyer, they have been doing so without considering many issues, an increase in oil prices in the area that they do production or business because different reasons that can be a solution to reduce their products and services.
"Its results, by following the trend of business people who do not have permits (middlemen), and believe that they are very better though not therefore, and by wanting to maintain the weather in the local market where the business people have been increasing the price of services and products to thinking that they are improving their businesses."
As a result of that situation is not true, because we increase their prices, without a lot of its customers, by giving them information about the decision of increasing prices, due to the basis of doing your business and moving to the neighborhood where there is your neighbor, "says there was a difficult decision to protect your business and relocating to where there is your neighbor," says it was a difficult decision to avoid your business and moving to where there is your neighbor, "he says.
It should be remembered that, all the days is the competition, even if a business person will not decide to go back to the competition by doing an additional force to market themselves through various aspects, radio, internet, newspapers and television so as to do well, if the network is big, middle or small, is supposed to have reasons outside getting benefits, otherwise, they will be unable.
In the opinion and questions, we communicate with the writer through mobile phones, 752, 790, 90 minutes or email support @ mkito.
