Close to this section of discussion with me, Lucy Patrick with the topics which we discussed in today's day, is that the speed of AIDS that is given for now can cause changes we come at a time for us to prevent and close infection, I believe at each other.
Because if you look if you look at the husband they missed him.
They were given that in the past, I cannot change if there is different types of products that are getting education of AIDS, while inside Denmark, they are getting the best way to see for people who are doing things to understand what you know.
Use maybe what should I do?
Why, me also believe this generation was she releasing.
If you were affected by the human disease is I don't think that you can be given, therefore if you look at a lot of education that have been given many times, but these things have said if you are not aware if you are not aware what we are not only?
Because if you look at only if you look at the provinces which are being used in the southern highland regions, in Iringa and Mbeya, it is said that AIDS virus will be able to find ourselves what are the ones.
AIDS virus have been Miss Vicky Kombe that we look at this situation is that in our country we should give you an opportunity to say that AIDS has changed but it's not a person to say that HIV is why and then you can be able to give advice.
To say you have forgotten the changes but as days we continue to provide their seminar, they do not allow me to know what I have been doing so that I can't know why I have ever been used because we should not be used because we can't be used because we can't be used because they can't be used because they can't be used if they can't like it.
Education is given.
To the community related to infection of AIDS.
For me, I can say that?
To reach a black style that has been intended because we must look for us as a whole nation including the Liberian government, we should have goals and the government to sign the previous government, we're going back to when they face Kim.
I would like people and to produce most importantly, there is need for sustainable strategies to be able to reduce.
Starting from the family level together with orphans to be able to evaluate if there are some people of research to go and do projects for private benefit, today we are the project that is required to wait, we are doing that we are doing where we are doing what is needed.
It is nothing to get education instead of politics.
The non-governmental organizations that have been giving education to Wastara, after taking education to the development of other people, even the government who is in a subject is about.
You know you have not want to protect myself if we avoid evil deeds for each other and they are saying that if the circulation of child abuse is needed, I think this is not a speed to the youth of Tanzanian youths but I think it is very important because there are many youths who do not want to know and do not know.
Because it is very attractive, it is that education should continue to be demolished.
Parents continue to break the silence together with their youth that I don't have involved.
Grandfather is still with a speed and a big percentage we are seen.
To Jerusalem, meaning of truth about the body because there are many youths when we go into the relationship and we believe that it is true to have one lover each other, I have heard the person today for being involved with another time to be able to know its events.
For example of phones that are expected to go for the people that are coming out for the purpose of being able to use it.
Prevent as usual.
But the best experts in the group of providing education is coming up.
For it is good to know that we have been arrested are people.
They are using these involved.
Try to use the body.
If the youth have died in one place.
To go to provide education of infection.
We think that the minister are questioning the minister they are blocking us because they are not happy because they have HIV infection, we have continued to go to Iringa for the purpose of being unable to do so, so that the possibility of those people get advice and so as to test the virus for AIDS.
Because I say it's only that for our government, it is good to look at the institution.
Which I cannot confirm this for Tanzanians so that we can change because I believe completely after several years.
We can have us for us to have people.
Those who had got infection.
.
But if you have not tell ourselves, we want to see it is that there was going for them to fight for these hours to statistics.
In Market, it was leading in the world that statistics played to come and check up as the president, but I'm in here, but I'm in work, but we were leading.
You need me.
Everything has reduced.
Why are many people?
Food without the deceased is something.
People alleged to male dancers as they see you see for men but as there are these mothers, the father and the owners of the field to the culture where someone is something and time.
In the province of Job Ndugai, there are other areas where there are people living in food because it has been done if men like the culture having a lover.
Recently, our government has invested in many people that they will be able to do on what has been given there to there but we believe that we are supposed to get people who will be HIV but I do not like the country.
They have had a great law by saying.
Tanzania without AIDS.
Rights can he said?
Listen to me.
But it is not easy to like that politicians know this thing is no longer a political party.
They started.
How can I do?
Therefore, if it is true he is a campaign that has been called knowing the noise and people when it means that we shall continue without AIDS, it is possible that we can enjoy.
There is not a good job if many people have been saying.
He said people are many.
They are convinced he has its benefit by saying.
As it is for now, it is required to speak, I tell you the ones who are.
All citizens, meaning your impatience will follow the community.
You mean that everyone has been shocked and that everyone is a girl because it's a girl because it was found.
I understand Azam we can know what we are doing in the field and then.
For example.
He says if you look at the village he wants to go out of the village he is able to come out in the whole village to look for life in the village is true.
Although it is not true that what should I vote of?
It seems that there is a question, but they do not know how he can protect themselves?
He answered that maybe it is the ones that will give another woman to another, I know that one way for sex and love in many things that he wants to do in many things.
You know that there are things that other things will go through and I found a person.
In Africa about the fare in the village because they know that there is clean and they prefer his things and they are not or else.
You know that there are still there in where people think that stem cells are there.
That the number is going on.
My advice has decided that people who are praised to provide a seminar about the infection of HIV if you understand do not give birth and also to give them a seminar to town, have been arrested in the villages and in the rural areas so that I don't have any extra time in this section of discussion.
For preparing for slavery.
