
The hyena had gone down.
By Sammy Lil.

A hyena that was surprised at taking part of the field of Llongero village, Biharamulo district, was sold to be stew after the killing of residents who had gone down.
The surprise incident on Tuesday morning was forced to a huge crowd of people from the Langoni Area, the ones who were left out to open and not knowing or not being involved in a mistake.
Some of the people that were affected by the animal, said that for a long time, they have been a normal dog.
The hyena had been criticized for instance, analysis and lack of bananas and also requires to get a clean place and steal anything that had been buried.
Following the word, Andrew Chale, who was witnessing that incident, explained the nation today that the hyena had gone to leave and seen to have a very good health, but his recent days had been worked on because he was already done by the country.
Mister Silale explained that the speed at ten o'clock in the morning, the hyena that went to home for one woman who uses alcohol known as after drinking alcohol which is found very much by the elderly of human beings who were found and even having the courage to ask for them into a clean environment that was close to alcohol.
The woman who was known by her customers as Mama Akoth famously known as Mrs. Fauzia Kullane.
The first customers to visit Mama Salma, told the girl to be a hyena, something that woman did not know.
The residents of bananas, swords, canes, came out to the area and involved the killing of that animal who later he bought as goats.
Some of the people who were seeing that incident and others taking photos with their phones, they want the hyena that had not been appointed but the villagers of Chakwama, said the loss that was caused by that animal was very big and that not blocking the weather.
The hyena claimed to be demolished and everyone who participated in the killing of getting a big part in order to protect others later.
Mister Joseph Tetteh Zito who said they can eat the meat of the hyena that was selling that meat shillings 1,000 for one acre.
"Because the hyena tried to eat my goats, then it is a must for its meat."
Said Mister Erena.
However, some of the people said that mistake is poison that are not supposed to be eaten.
One day later, there is no one who has been talked about by the stomach.
