
The contract of good and a solution to problems.

It has been written by Arnold Pistorius.

It has been published today, 18th September 2016.
Recently, the management of the Sugar Factory (TPC) in Moshi, Kilimanjaro Province, together with employees of the factory, they had signed two contracts, better and salaries being a sign of ensuring the best environment in the performance of both sides.

The signing of the signing, was captured by the deputy minister of the country, the office of the prime minister, Antony Mavunde, who deals with issues of labor, youth and employment who wanted political parties to use correct ways that are not allowed to solve conflicts in work areas, including discussions.
Mavunde, said, the act of TPC signing those two contracts that is organizing a good state of employees in that factory is an indication that the leadership of the factory and the employees of the workers are determined to make sure there are no conflicts without a must.
Mavunde, said, (TPC) has shown a good example to be followed by other industries in the country, because his action of accepting to sign a better and high level agreement is among the important legal action, that show that the factory is looking for its workers.
Mavunde added that, most of them as leaders are used to be called industries to listen and solve conflicts between employees and the management of their industries, an issue that was different from TPC farms where he has succeeded to witness the signing of two seasons for workers.
While talking to the leadership of the factory for that step, the Deputy Minister said that he is depending on the contracts that it will be a catalyst to work hard in the factory and not the reason for demonstrations that have no benefit to both sides, management and workers.
He said the action of (TPC) signing those agreements, it means that the employer who is a factory for sugar is to have responsibilities of implementing its employees while the workers are with the responsibility of working hard and bring success in the factory.
Mavunde, he urged the parties' parties' employees to do and say, those who are supposed to encourage and provide education to employees about important things that will stimulate the development of their interests in the factory and not to do political activities that will involve employees to fail to do the work that has brought in the factory.
As a result of the signing of that contracts, TPC has been explained to ensure that it's on the front line, so as to increase its employees to work hard and knowledge, therefore contribute to increasing the production of sugar in that factory.
Mavunde explained that the effects of the association of workers is to do political activities, instead of responsibilities that are required to be together, causing the rights of their rights to the employer by using ways of involving themselves instead of talks.
The law of internal affairs of the year 2004, explains the steps that should be taken by employees or the party's employees to do a strike, but the Deputy Minister said, it has been satisfied with some of the leaders of the workers of the workers by bringing in politics, an issue that makes him to serve employees in without a must and the employer.
The head of the department of relations from TPC, Mister Robary Ally, said that up to prepare that contracts that will run for three years after doing an evaluation about the state of employees of the factory and to see it is good that the salaries will be included by eight percent.
As he said Mavunde, I believe that what was done by TPC is a good thing with an aim of encouraging production with productivity at the factory which will enable the growth of a economy of one employee, and the country in general and stop conflicts between leadership and workers.
We are not supposed to see employees getting their responsibilities in the factory or the employer is the right to employees because the contracts signed by the two sides was organized by those involved by considering the important requirements of giving them (TPC) that step.
