Mavunde did not want the health of the workers were unable.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been reported, 31st August, 2016.

The Deputy Minister, Office of the Prime Minister, Labor, Youth and Employment, Antony Mavunde, has wanted to supervised the security standards at the place of work so as to protect the health of workers.

He said that in this town yesterday, during the commemoration of 15 years of the establishment of the agency for safety and health at the place of work (x3).
He said there is a great importance to encourage employers and workers to consider the foundation of improving health and safety at the place of work so as to reduce accidents and diseases that are involved in work and finally increasing productivity.
He said the responsibility of the agency is to encourage and encourage the procedures of work that consider the safety and health at the place of work so as to prevent accidents and diseases that are brought together with the aim of increasing productivity in the areas of work.
He said since the establishment of the 15 years ago, there have been different achievements, including the increase in number of 46 workers in the year 2006 / 2007 up to 113 workers in the financial year 2015 / 2016.
Also the increase in number of work areas that are registered up to now, the agent has had a place of about 12,286 having an increase in new number of jobs about approximately 2000 for the last year.
Moreover, the increase in the number of workers who were reduced their health from 418 children in the year 2007 / 2008 to 67,888 trillion shillings in the financial year of 2015 / 2016.
The introduction of the course of health and security at the place of work to security officers and health at the place of work where up to now the number of those graduates have reached more than 1,800 villages.
He said this year, the agents are doing the commemoration of 15 years since its establishment in all six regions.
He said in Dodoma province, servants of agents are expecting to cooperate with the cleaning of the bus station of the province and other areas of the province.
The Head of Public Service Unit, Joyce Ndalichako, said more than 200 cases have been dealt with by those involved in line with one case of a person who discovered the instructions were taken to court.
The member of the Advisory Board of FASDO, Doctor Aggrey Mlimuka said that the private sector has been involved in ensuring the issue of the health of the workers is not sure.
Another delegate of that board, Teddy Mapunda, said, there is still a great job to be done in ensuring the issue of health workers is being given a lesson.
"Our country is big and it has many investors and therefore bringing a great dangers to the workers, investors of China have not been so much better infrastructure and security must be looked at, there is a employee where he was caught and followed him," he said.
