
President Jakaya Kikwete was appointed as the police who accompanied by a wife of the minister.
Elias Msuya, The Citizen of not like @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam City, President John Magufuli has instructed by Deogratius Mbango to be taken after removing the wife of one minister of his government who was involved with the traffic police after his driver doing an offense in Namanga area in the city of Dar es Salaam.
Dominic Mbango, faced with the incident after the driver of the wife of the minister to stand on the sign of allowing the pedestrians to cross the road and was forced to make calls after that mother was forced to make him be a wife to the minister.
Speaking at the opening of the work session of the police commanders on the provinces, senior lawyers of the provinces and those squads, that took place in Dodoma town, President Magufuli without informing the minister and his wife.
"Eindhoven mid-fielder and he knows the work, he knows his position with the minister and his wife my work with him," said President Magufuli, in accordance to the news report of TBC1.
Despite the police and President Magufuli not known as the name of the minister, talks through mobile phone that have been spread by the name of one new minister in the fifth term government, who values the newspaper that it was not found to speak about that scandal.
A exchange of police and the mother shows that his driver was arrested after standing in the middle of her husband's family, which is a sign of contraception?
Those talks were recorded at a time to bid farewell to Deogratius Massawe the police commander of Kinondoni, assistant superintendent of police, Awadh Haji and explaining to him the event that was before him.
Meanwhile, Deogratius told Routh who was the time he wants to give him a fine, the driver wanted to remove the car and that mother got it.
In this, the mother was telling her because he is the wife of the minister. "I would not allow him to leave but I will give him to the station when I wanted to return to the station when I went to go to the station," said Deogratius Massawe.
"He told me that I don't know my dear reader, I don't have mental disabilities, he says that she is a wife to the minister?
Later, Commander Haji wants to talk with the mother whose talks show where he could destroy the police saying he had asked him to educate the driver because the mistake he did is a small.
I am not satisfied, and I did not tell me, I don't know what I don't know where I told me that I was going to go through, I was going to get change so as to give him a technician, "said the wife to the minister.
"I ask for what offense, he said for his mistake is to stand on the same time," I told me, that is the mistake to be educated, but if you know it is a big offence if it is a big offence if it is a great punishment.
I wish you just one thing, in a bad luck, one of them is a driver not knowing when he gets a car, a surprise of when she was married, "said Haji and wanting him to bid farewell and Deogratius Nsokolo for his offense.
By Deogratius Massawe listening to him to speak about the incident, Deogratius Deogratius admitted to fight with the prime minister, but he did not want to get in details saying that he is not the police spokesperson, but you want tomorrow to go to the station where he didn't know everything. "
Said Deogratius while in Namanga area, the commander Haji confirmed the incident, but he asked the writer to ask the police commander in Kinondoni province, Christopher Fuime.
Commander Fuime told Citizen that President Magufuli has ordered that officer, he has ordered that officer to be supported through the law and that the directive will not be discussed.
"I am this one I want to Dodoma at the session of the president and the police officers. It is an order for now you want it because he is to vie for him, because he is to pray for him, what should he knows," said Fuime.
