
Al-Shabaab that joined Al-Shabaab.
In the year 2012 a Islamic group of great ideologies in Somalia, Al-Shabaab, announced to be supported with the Al-Madina Center.
That announcement was issued in the video of the video and leaders of those two groups, an issue that brought up a huge conflict of security especially in East African countries, including Kenya.
Since the release of that announcement, other groups of the rebels like the port of Mombasa and Boko Haram in Nigeria are believed to be involved with Al Shabab militants.
In that video of the video, the side of Al-Shabaab was led by his former leader, Ahmed Godson or famous as Abu Dhabi, who was killed in September.
While speaking in the Arab language, Abu Dhabi said the members of that group will give directions from the leader of Al-Saharan African Union, Aki al-Zito.
While getting in America last year, Ahmed Godson was quoted saying that during the currencies that will rule the world has reached an end and that it has come at the time of Islam they will rule.
The leader of Al-Koke's leader, Aki al-Zinsou has praised the goals of Al-Shabaab and presented the step of that group to join Al-Shabaab.
A few days after the leader of Al Shabaab killed by police in America, the Islamic militants named Amhad gotten her to be their new leader.
A new leader in the neighborhood of Al-Abu Mohammed, said that the decision to appoint that leader was not been reached without the objection.
That group that gave their announcement through the internet promised to revenge following the killing of Ahmed Godwin. the chief officers in Somalia have previously gave a stern warning being against terrorism attacks.
Al-Zille has said Somalia will be a series of hadists in the corners of Africa and added that they will fall into what he termed as a critical condition of the young man from America, Ethiopia and Kenya against Somalis.
He was quoted by Al-Shabaab to protect its people, especially those who are oppressed, and also urged the Somalia citizens to support the decision of their youth, "meaning Al-Shabaab.
Al-Shabaab is a group of several soldiers, most of them being Somalis and even so, they have also foreign fighters from the neighboring countries in Somalia and even other parts of the world as a group that is controlling in several areas of South and Central Africa.
In Mogadishu town they were involved with the army of protecting the peace of the African Union, Amen Vodacom, with soldiers from Uganda, Burundi, and Djibouti and the officers are controlling it more in the capital city, Mogadishu.
The south of Kenya, the army of Kenya have already ended the stronghold of Al-Shabaab under the sky and in the sky and of Ethiopia, it has also been charged with the group in the northern side and already they have landed in Shangani town, the important town in Somalia.
