It is few minutes in the big part of the province of Singida.
The virtues that has risen up to a bus that is translated in the host that it is enough signs of buying this drought season and when they welcome the rains even though others are rains to come quickly so that they can start production activities.
But by being Edson Wilison with his family, residents of different village in the district of Jalala in Singida province.
This is the first time to have ever happened in history of life.
He lost four people who had great efforts to the family and the nation in general.
After falling on their recent houses last night, they were put in a goalless draw in dealing with cold drinks, showed up for three days in a three consecutive days.
At night to maintain the children, that she had gone to go to four children then, I heard, I saw me when I arrived at my home, I saw it so much when I arrived at my home, I saw it so that I don't read it, then I saw it alone, "he met me.
If you go (IPC) I call him, Edson Mwasabwite, says that apart from being beaten by four children, who had three years of nine to twenty years and three.
You are not supposed to be left back to me in my heart by losing the place it becomes poor after going back to home and when we're going back again, the customers will begin by taking.
Bishop claimed that then I will not want to get into one hour, we see all that is what they saw for one hour, it is people who died in order for me.
The same way you are used together with the deceased, I was two goats.
A love or one of God together with her bed and her bed is a hole.
There is no legal investigation that happened in relation to the incident.
It's not easy to know the real truth about what happened until it caused the deaths of those family members, she doesn't know what there was a situation that had already been found but there was no one that had two four things only.
It is for a house of trees and I have ever heard of a hat that how many attacks was like six poles, that is between the elephants who live in three and behind three.
Together with being more than one year since the occurrence of the incident.
But her mother who remained with five children just after losing the first male child.
She still not believe that what happened in the incident was no wonder because it was not something.
Because one of the houses that see those houses of trees do not lose hope, if it fell, it remains only one day by the fire who came through it was.
Currently the rains poured where it gives her husband to all the children of?
And we are believed to do the houses going down.
The child begins?
No wonder is it?
Although there is still a lot of questions more than another family.
But the leaders of the district, don't know more than sixty percent of its residents live in residential houses.
They are saying that what happened the size of the disaster problem that resulted from those residential houses.
There are five people that lost their lives, I give her life in each one in one.
As a result of falling with Kelvin.
Statistics show that since the past, since Kam in the past since we started our two hundred houses and the work I wrote.
Yes, they bring effects to another time he is feared.
A total of residential houses have not allowed the youth to go to another time I am happy if he can't see him in the house.
So as a spirit you love, is the traditional houses in the central region of the central region, which was carried out by illegal trees and they have been causing the lack of strong trees without any problems that have been causing the lack of stable trees due to that disaster.
But also remember that in the past they had to make corrections as they prepare.
To come to there.
And at the moment it has come at a short time when it reached where there was a long time when I was near the house, I was at the same way, I was very fast, when I was forced to fall down, you will be a lot of words at each other.
You know the changes in weather.
Phone and this season have a difference, maybe there is a lot of rains that causes many effects.
To me, I have love you.
Friends came out.
People were confirmed to buy trees that are ongoing well now, there's no trees in there, there was not people who have arrived at their homes and this is three, a house was arrested for having a lot of water that is found in my house, not you know the problem.
Against the elders we have, we are supposed to fear so that youths we are looking for, there are no one old man to supervise when the elders stop then come and a building is stable.
Women is supervised by two days so that they are being built easily and people who are partnering are sitting on work.
If you are a little headquarters but not like the great stars the late does not want.
It's a period of twenty years, we've been redeemed by the action.
We cannot get a lot, when the mother entered but these rains were coming up when they are not a sin?
They know that rice continues with stem cells because it can be like.
My programs, when a woman can be affected, you look at a little time.
It is very high.
Up to date it begins by the rains, you know the bombs of soil must be released.
So much stable.
The late?
