
What is going on in the parties is it good.
And put it in eternal peace.
Though from outside political party, it is seen that you are self-stable, I hope that what is facing you don't understand the eyes of many.
It will benefit from some of the leaders in different levels, it's true that the father of 'father', has been at the high table that was filled with Tufani and network is dangerous to its survival.
We should come out the head of the party, Raila Odinga, and the ability to kill in front of the journalist's camera, the truth is that the sweetness of 'dirty' has changed to be a solution to its members.
Or the truth is not only inside 'that is being supported by the fact that in other universities, different from things were removed and that in the era of administration of one party including events that were displayed because the leaders of parties being displayed because they have no chance in Kenya for now.
Those leaders were chosen to be elected so that they can be servants of their leaders, but they were selected to serve the citizens and every day make ends the agenda of the citizens.
That Indiana governor, is among the leaders that have shown maturity in political parties, although he is in the United Nations, especially its main aim to be accused of being traitors.
The wind of change when you start to get married, without doubt that no one can be swept away.
A few years ago, there is no one who claimed to be a member of parliament for ODM Party, they did not get the reputation of asking for him and to sign his head, but now, it has been a normal thing.
That Governor wanted to cooperate with the president like Doctor Kizza Besigye, it is not a must he ask for permission from his head being handed over a full certificate for slavery.
On the other side, I believe that every political party has the law and regulations which every member is supposed to follow up, but it's impossible so as to prevent the leaders that are chosen by the citizens to implement their responsibilities.
As it is in parliament, the opposition are not making us to oppose the identity cards with the government because those of them are their opponents the truth is that the government which is in power will serve all Kenyans in general.
According to the Way, make calls from disrupting peace and religious leaders with their differences, to me I see this is lack of political politics that would be found to have ever been affected by political politics and the retired president of MOI.
The important thing of doing is to have talks with his fellow members instead of using the political problem.
A funeral of a goal when a woman is not a cry, before the last elections last year, the appointment of the ball in many universities, was faced with cheating.
You don't know the plain truth that you can destroy the wall of ODM Party, that you will sell, in the year 2017, it will be at the political grave, while the mourners celebrated instead of having deeply grieved.
