
The names of UDA-RT company.

It has been written by Halima Kimanumanu, Dodoma.

It has been published on 29th October, 2016.

The government has noted the front of the Parliamentary Committee on Local Government (FAC), that it is still a big amount of shares in the Tanzania Civil Aviation Organization (UDA).

Together with that, shareholders of the Simon Group which is 36 million shillings between 15 million shares of that organization, have been appointed officially in front of the committee including the former member of parliament for Kaliua Constituency, Professor Juma Kapuya.
Being led by the minister of state, the office of the president, regional administration and local governments (Tamisemi), George Simbachawene, the registrar of treasury, Lawrence Mafuru and the head leaders of Dar es Salaam city yesterday before that committee.
Last week, the LAAC Committee advised the leadership of the city that is led by the administrative secretary of Dar es Salaam Province, Theresia Mbamba, to explain how the Simon Group company led by the chief executive officer Robert Kisena, as it came in and became one of the big shareholders of that organization.
However, the instructions that were given by the leadership of the City Council of Dar es Salaam, were unable to tell members of the committee and urged them to return again yesterday when he was accompanied by Prime Minister Brigadier General and the registrar of treasury at the fact that it is clear, including the legal owners of the Simon Group.
After the discussion that took place yesterday in the internal meeting, the chairperson of LAAC Committee in Hong Kong City, while speaking to the press, he said the government has decided to urge the committee that he had already received all the shares in the government, that will be sold and raising conflict between the Simon Group company.
"My committee has been informed by the government that all the shares that were not divided into 24 percent of the UDA-RT company have been expelled from the government after a long-term conflict between the government and the company," said Mwiru.
According to the report of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) of the year ending in June 2015, the UDA-RT company has a total of 15 million shares which every one has dropped from a total of 100 million shillings.
However, the report has revealed that between the 15 million shares, 75 percent of 5 million shillings equivalent to a total of 71 million dollars compared to different groups where the City of Dar es Salaam got 89 percent of the shares equivalent to 36 million shillings.
Other groups that were given to the shares are the government that had a total of 34 million dollars equivalent to 49 percent.
That report was noted that the 78 million shares is equivalent to 89 percent of 5 percent which were not taken to the organization, it was sold easily by the board of the UDA Group Company which has already confirmed to return.
As a result of that report of CAG, the prime minister has said that the government has a lot of shares to the company than shareholders who even so, in order to confirm that statement by the government, that committee has been given a period of two weeks before the registrar of treasury at that committee.
In addition to that, the chairperson said that in that session, the registrar of treasury mentioned the shares of Simon Group together with Mtemvu who visited the shares, others are Robert Mugabe's shares, George Kisena claimed it is 10,000 shillings, George Kisena and Kulwa Deteba, 10,000.
According to Mwiru, the committee also ordered TAA to give legal advice about how to address 46 billion shillings put in the Central Bank of Tanzania, arose from sales of shares of the city council of Simon Group.
However, for now, there is a legal conflict that is going on between the council of the city and the council of councilors about the validity of being sold to those shares, where the councilors until now believe that the city council is owning the shares of the UDA-RT company.
The city council bought its shares to the organization since the year 2013 after the council of councilors to repeat the shares through the BoT company, where up to now, the funds have reached 46 billion shillings.
Speaking about the issue of advice, Masaju promised to write a way of writing the advice and handing over to those councilors that will have legal decisions, but with productivity for all sides.
Speaking about that scandal in that session, Mafuru wanted all public organizations to learn through that scandal and to make sure that they do a decision on big issues to consider the issue of cooperation.
