
Japan to increase a grant from Tanzania.

It has been written by special writer, Washington DC.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

The government of Japan through the Development Corporation (JICA) has promised to increase the amount of grants to the government of Tanzania so as to fund the projects including farming, water, road infrastructure and other community services so as to help reach the intended purposes for its citizens.

That promise was made by the Vice President of the Japan International Development Corporation (JICA), doctor of Finance and Planning, Doctor Philip Mpango, in Washington Draw, in America.
Kato said Tanzania and Japan are friends for a long time and that the country will continue to help in implementing different projects that bring productivity to the economy of the country and the life of our country as a whole.
"Right now we want to start implementing another phase of the irrigation farming project for irrigation farming so as to increase the production of that product which is very important," said Kato.
He said Japan has also decided to increase the amount of sponsorship to the African Continent from 13 million dollars which the country was giving a period of five years starting from the year 2013 to reach 30,000 dollars in the year 2013 to reach 30,000 dollars in the year 2013 from August.
2016 for a period of the next three years.
He also said that in order to build the ability and skills of African youths, Japan has started a program of providing education where right now 60 youths from various African countries have been taken to the country to learn from the colleges they are involved in agriculture so that they can get experience and be the catalyst to change when they go back to their countries.
On his part, Doctor Mpango thanked Japan for helping Tanzania in various economic and social sectors.
He mentioned some of the projects that the country are participating in Tanzania as the construction of the Arusha-Saharan road so as to go to Kenya, the construction of the road road (flyover) that started in order to reduce congestion in Dar es Salaam city, water projects and irrigation farming.
"75 percent of our citizens are depending on agriculture because the decision by Japan is to invest a lot of money in the agricultural sector of irrigation, it is important because agriculture will be productive and it will be run in business," said Doctor Mpango.
He has also thanked the government of Japan for doing research and regulations not to destroy the project of controlling the floods in Kondoa town, Morogoro province so as to control that river that does not affect the central railway infrastructure.
"This project is very important because the government has been getting close to every year to renovate the railway way after the purchase of water, therefore we thank Japan for continuing to ensure that research which will help to deal with that situation," added Doctor Mpango.
He has promised that the fifth term government is prepared to collect taxes and to fill the loopholes of loss of government funds including starting a special court to deal with corruption so as to bring discipline in the public service.
