In front of AGOA, I've heard that from there to start a dream together with the youths who are in the university of writing news.
Bye, that you're close through this performance and these things have happened, I have seen it from the expertise.
By writing news that I have written about news this month, especially what compelled him to see you, especially what I want to see you, especially what I want to do you, especially what I want to do so, we should start by me or let me start with me.
The report even if the Swahili and anywhere in this, then in order to start Father John.
First, I thank you so much because we believe today, the stomach, is good for the interests of the nation but not to read one thing before I don't move forward.
Therefore, I visited that in our records.
First.
The first issue of the solution is what we used.
The Facebook page.
The first news on the testicles, is due to the history of the motion itself.
That they will bury his good that they will remember.
The scandal came through approximately one year has passed away.
At the time we are there.
People who are called investors for the purpose of going to invest in the energy sector.
After that, for a long period, there have been a long distance to go through.
We will remember it.
The World Bank.
I was like I would like to the world they tried to do that.
In my memory behind him.
While explaining that the company is a must for the government to take a huge precaution in its production of production.
As a result of that history it repeated that people started following up and Himself to what until when it comes to another issue of the Tegeta Escrow account.
A big issue is being done but that we place it on the front line with the commission to be weight in the research.
If you miss this matter, it happened in two thousand and eight in the month of February due to five hours and these.
I will produce another scandal that we are in.
When a man gets a person, it was able to come to do the government to play with the former prime minister, his brother Edward Lowassa.
He will not be responsible for the interests of the public due to the scandal of Richmond Development which was caused by that offense was an intention of she could prevent him that he has benefited from that process.
After the government fell due to Richmond Development, the electricity situation was stable due to the situation that we had with them as the nation made the government to look for a need of improving issues through mobile phones, later it started to be seven of female governments for a period and where they attacked the minister.
Pinda was sworn in to Dodoma the burial of the burial will be changed since citizens have been following up on the issue that there is a billion shillings.
And information show that these payments to follow the required procedures are to be a great news in the media anywhere in the world.
The first issue history is also the company itself with the names that have risen up in Mwanza City, a good thing but it is not the first one to make this issue should have priority in the budget is the history of the company's history to improve and and its results to reach us.
The second thing that we are doing so that we bring priority to a person.
It is a good report from the account.
We were told that two hundred million have been recognized due to white Eagle using the electricity generation equipment but they come to an appropriate time when they get information that are three hundred and ten million as a result of Mbowe is correct that this is not right.
That has brought again another weight to the questions, so as to be in the news media in the Facebook page.
The third issue will they do so as to be in things.
It is a report of the government that according to the law number nine, if I have not seen the system of the song "Nakula Undule.
It has a money area.
It should not be interfered to be about the payments of any kind up to the same time to inform them that what has been paid to so as the criteria for the revenue authority starts from because it has paid taxes.
When he was walking, I was given a ministry I stopped him that the tax that was paid is legal.
We have confirmed that the group is not present in the picture is legal, what I had great weight again, Flora Mvungi to be on the front line in the front line in this newspaper, things that cause it was in a language that has followed food to a high level, but not a must.
