
Monday, October 20, 2014.

"I wouldn't return the same same, my priority would have been a family!"

Re Giving my own life? "He asked and then listen to him.
"I could have changed the opinion polls of achievements we would like your relationship with my family and therefore, I would have been able to build a lot of time due to my wife and if I could do my wife so as to see my wife as seen as a priority of my life.

I pray to you in my friend, the retired prime minister, is transparency and ability to use its shortage as a lesson for others when she does not want to fulfill his life successful.

I want to live my life afresh, "he termed it very much and then he said directly without touching the words," I would like to see yourself "I would like to see me," I would do not care for my wife and those of me. "
He ordered him with him and that it will be looking for me to remind me on the eyes and maybe at the Kibonge Mdungi in what he has said, and he continued to invest, I believe I have benefited from the marriage which I have invested in here, Mister small, I could change them. "

I was very important to look for life in the era of my same kind, I was looking for money at night and there I was looking for a lot of life and sometimes I went to another country and leaving this family and leaving, that was how to show my love to them. "

"Life, we managed a bad life," it depends on several minutes and told the countries that he did in work, the organizations have ever been employed after being satisfied, he continued, "but I was surprised to know how my wife went to be far from me.
We missed a lot of time and sometimes in front of the children, I saw my wife like a woman and there will help me Sihana, to take my mistakes even one day after forcing him to look for all the days every time we are marrying.

"I started getting the desire to be at home to avoid problems, I found themselves so much even in public, I started to protect themselves in small houses and our leaders can remain to protect the respect of Tanzanians, but there was no relationship with joy again."

When I go back behind I am not worried about my marriage life, I don't have the courage to avoid others though I know I don't have any wife and to make sure that I protect my wedding oath.

How do I speak on the side of children's upbringing?

I would like to use more time and since four years now they have become a lot of people who have their lives, I can't read it but I believe it is close to me but I do not make this close to me.

My life has not been close to children when I was left to her mother (his wife) the responsibility to raise them although it had a lot to do so, but I know it is not to fulfill my responsibility as their father. "

"I cut it more that I have touched me more that I have never thought, I was my father and I did not want to know what they want.

"I went easily and I found himself being very difficult, and they are not being fair through my father, but I believe I was not aware whether my wife knows them and sometimes he has only a good life, but we did not pollute the user.

"Landscrona" does not tell me, "I could put my own opinions," I could have heard my wife so that I could have heard my wife and even if I could have heard my wife so that I could have heard my wife so as to see what I have written.

A fools should be prosecuted?

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
