

By Elias Kwesi.
The American government has continued to launch Tanzania as it meets the criteria of being given a donation by the American Development Corporation (Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) owned by 1 million American dollars, equivalent to 1 trillion shillings.
That evaluation has continued to take place when Ghana country had already caused its support, while Tanzania has faced with the poor of corruption that missed the donation of that donation.
This new report has been obtained after the session that took place in Washington DC February 27th, this year, between the Vice President of MCC, Kamnada Mkumbo and the Tanzanian ambassador in America and Mexico, Hnorable Liberata Mulamula and other issues, has ordered that Tanzania Board should be given a donation or not known.
"The board of the month of March cannot be able to make a decision of giving Tanzania a donation until the month of September 2015, that will do an evaluation," it is explaining how to look for a memory of the session between Khan and HEMA.
Khan said that the session was important so as to do the correct evaluation of those they had agreed with Tanzania, especially in matters of corruption before the board session of March, this year.
It is in the trend of increasing it up to Tanzania, recently the Vice President of MCC, Kamnada Mkumbo and the deputy president of policy and evaluation, Bendel Memorial Stadium, did a tour in the country with the aim of evaluating if Tanzania has been criteria for being given the second phase of the donation of MCC.
According to the schedule of the tour which Mtanzania newspaper has seen, Khan and Trachile in the country on March 2) met the Ambassador of the United States in the country, Mark Childress and his assistant, Virginia Baker, before getting information about the corruption scandal, including an issue of payment of money in the Escrow account.
It has been noted that in that tour which also had the aim of getting a picture about what will be done in relation to the process of opinion polls of the new constitution as well as the general elections that will be held later this year, those leaders met with the representative of MCC, Ambassador Childress.
They also met with the Minister of Finance, Saada Mkuya, the Minister of Energy and Minerals, George Simbachawene, Director of TANESCO, Ephraimu Mwasanguti speaking, the Executive Director of EWURA Felix Ngamlagosi, the National Executive Manager of EWURA Felix Ngamlagosi, the National Executive Officer of EWURA Felix Mwagara, the National Executive Officer of EWURA Felix Mwagara, the National Executive Officer of EWURA Felix Ngamlagosi (right) the national coordinator of Millennium Development Goals (MCA) and others.
That day also, Khan and Trachuma visited the headquarters of MCA in the National Development Corporation (NDC) before meeting with the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Minerals, Richard Ndassa, with the aim of listening to the priorities of the committee, especially in natural gas and later they finished a day tour by making a meeting with the Chief Secretary, Ambassador Ombeni Sefue at the State House.
Their schedule shows that March 3 met by the chairman of the National Electoral Committee (PAC), Zitto Kabwe, in order to get information on the IPTL scandal, the Escrow account in general and later got food to the afternoon by representatives of the World Bank (WB) and the representatives of Norway so as to hear their strategies in the energy sector.
