Mbowe, Zitto Kabwe and the concept of Pampers's.
Brightiles 20, 2014.

Gudluck Eme, Make me Pukey, is the Governor of Roma French Montana was coming from one family with the third wife and the last one at Julius KEC Company Limited (Julius Cellphone Company), a player or called Mwengi.
Puntland is one of the hement fans of soccer at that time of Roma-old - it's like his word which was the law.
It is reported that one day, Pukey, followed up to the point of requesting three police officers being killed immediately after the two officers were given two weeks after being completed, one police came back to the camp without his colleague.
Pungwe, when he saw the police who had returned from the holiday without his colleague, he insisted that while several points that was done by the police against his fellow musician, Piso during the summary of his thoughts that, by any other, that police will have married his colleague and that is why he has returned himself.
The anger, Pukey, said that the police will not accept to be guilty of killing his fellow police. No one was the courage of not forgetting the lawyer of Pukey, a series of misunderstanding with the police who returned from holiday.
While commenting on the bomb attacks, being the implementation of Puntland, suddenly the police who was allowed to be attacked by his colleague during the holiday comes back.
The murderer did not continue to obey God's command, instead he stopped him again in Puntland, police who was supposed to sign him because the police did not kill him because she was surprised to think that the police saw his colleague.
After that, Pukey did not have a game to be transparent and to have three Israeli soldiers who were unable to kill the police who came back from holiday without his colleague, he was supposed to be because she didn't obey the authority that she had decided to land.
That police who returned back from the holiday without his partner and he was supposed to be identified because the judgment (judgment) failed to return early in hand with his fellow police who did not return early together with his fellow police who did not return early together with his fellow police who did not return early in hand with his colleague who were not guilty.
You can see in this concept of justice, which by the lawyers, "Pukey, while carrying a big number of death, technical action was not correct (although he was supposed to have him because he gave him a solution to someone because he left, relatives, where he had already joined his colleague.
Secondly, Perals also did not right in accordance with the legal requirements, integrity and even wisdom of this fact that this concept of Puntland, these are inspiring.
In the environment of that kind of leaving your rights without caring about its effects, that's when I want to discuss a conflict, "between the member of parliament of Kigoma North constituency (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe, and the Hai member of parliament, Freeman Mbowe - MEMKWA - who is also the chairman of the party at the national level.
The journey of Mbowe and Zitto Kabwe in CHADEMA politics is long, private is one among the witnesses who saw the journey which had a lot of challenges to them, there are many times they were in dangerous challenges.
I remember that there was a time when the former member of parliament of Tarime, Chacha Wangwe, spoke to the union of political parties between Zitto Kabwe, so as to achieve his goals to take the chairperson of CHADEMA.
I remember, Zitto and Mbowe did not give up when they found themselves as a speech in a meeting with people under the famous cities in the country, you can't speak about the success of CHADEMA by setting up Mbowe to Zitto Kabwe.
As such, the growth of the CHADEMA nation was carrying these two leaders, although there is a fact that other leaders come to a huge amount to those achievements.
I remember the campaign to restore Tarime, Tarime, after the death of Chacha Band was not easy and even the participation of the funeral of inheritance did not have a friendly environment for Zitto or Mbowe.
On stage at that time, Zitto appeared to be careful on how to address the statistics to build a political argument, but Mbowe is responsible for the plans of here and how the things are going on well.
Personally, I saw the gap of Zitto Kabwe in the stage that are run by CHADEMA for now, but if I saw the gap of Mbowe in the trend of political parties for Zitto Kabwe, although my view that you can change later.
