
The government continues to sell 16 trillion shillings.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

The nation has reduced a total of 774 billion American dollars (5 trillion shillings) from July 2004 up to June 2015 due to the use of natural gas that the government could destroy the gas outside the country.

That statement was given the day before yesterday by the Marketing Manager of the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), Felix Nangumbu Village, during a one-day seminar on oil and gas sector to the journalists in Dodoma and Singida provinces.
He said the benefits of gas in the nation is big due to save a lot of money if the gas could be bought for the country.
He said up to the year 2015, an amount of natural gas which was discovered it is a sum of 5769 trillion shillings.
He also said that it is needed the strategy of together to identify those opportunities, together with that, he said that Tanzania has been affected by the whole issue of oil that is facing the world and caused the price.
Speaking about the availability of oil and gas in the country, he said that the country has enough gas towards an amount of 575 trillion shillings with a big amount from the sea, which is a total of 1608 / 17 dollars.
He noted that the amount that is in large and there is no problem or problems in the availability of gas.
"On Songosongo side, an amount of gas which is paid is expected to reach a total of 13 trillion shillings," said Nangumbu Village.
He also said that Tanzania expects to implement the big project through the oil and gas sector, in the sea, which will cost Tanzanian shillings more than 60 trillion shillings.
Speaking about the implementation of that project, he said that it will be great than all the projects that have ever happened in the country.
He also said that the project is being implemented through the Indian Ocean, Nangumbu Village, said between the year 2020 to 2020 it is the program that is expected to be used in implementing the project until it will be completed.
He said in order to implement that project, the government has taken 3,000 shillings and that it will use a total of 12 billion shillings to pay compensation to 300 citizens who are in Lindi province.
