Presidency will be sold at 20 billion shillings.
January 26, 2015.

One of the politicians who mentioned to vie for presidency in the general elections of this year has claimed that any winner found has used to pay 20 billion shillings.
Those funds are of payment of payments to members of the executive council and the general meeting of his party, payments for various aides and payments for the purpose of advertisements and other payments that were given by the name "special needs."
Our citizens have been told that one of the special work which are taking place this year are those who are involved in polluting the opposition candidates by using the media and another way, while those who will be paid for that work.
Speaking in an interview with this newspaper, the member of parliament for Wawi Constituency (CUF), Hamad Rashid Mohamed, said that we are supposed to look for well because now politics have been attacked by people with different interests with the nation and they are ready to use any cost of they want.
Hamad who has ever been the minister in the fifth term government and later the leader of opposition camp in parliament in the ninth parliament, says the candidates who have the financial capacity for now are from the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
"Let I give you a little example, there is one of the ones that mentioned to vie for presidency through CCM who was alleged to produce approximately 5 billion shillings per year because of two days, Christians and two of Muslims face off and the new year.
"A total they are getting 75 billion shillings for one year, and at the moment there are paying the payment of the value for its different people who have done work on social media and newspapers which is no one that is also a big number.
"CCM advised them to start working officially, they will have to start paying great advertisements in all media stations and outside the country and that's why they will start producing more than 1000 members of the general meeting which will be ready to vote.
Hamad who is now involved with Alliance for Democratic Change (ADC) due to the conflict that is inside CUF, he said that as such, the election for this year will be a great cost more than any other that it got in the history of Tanzania.
In that interview, Hamad said that this is a year whom we are required to give a huge message to people who use money or to do money as a foundation of better leadership by refusing to enter the elections.
Hamad said he can decide to vie for the presidency of Zanzibar instead of the one of the union because he believes that he is well prepared, although he has shown that the candidate will be required to use a total of two billion shillings in this election.
"I've told me inside CCM and there we were able to be taught that money is not a foundation of development, but today's why it seems to be the end of one person to rule Tanzania even if he will be the best candidate," he said.
Speaking about the explanation of Hamad, the lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam and the political issues, Professor Kitila Mkumbo, said that although the amount that was mentioned is a big, he cannot try that there are people who want the presidency that are ready to use that amount to win.
"What is in this here is that these funds can't be used by the candidate alone, but groups from outside business and international companies that may be able to control the president who could promote their resources without problems.
"With my experience, during the general elections of the year 2010, the party that was there for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) was using a total of 700 million shillings recently in that election, and it is possible that there are other use that can increase the amount," said Kitila.
Tanzania has the law on the elections' expenditure signed in the end of President Jakaya Kikwete on March 2010, with the aim of controlling the use of a big amount of money during the elections in the country.
The former controller and Auditor General of the government (CAG), Ludovick Utouh has said that the law did not have a weight that was expected because it was made in an environment that could destroy the environment that is in the country for now.
