Is why Vincent Kigosi had killed his family?
Petit 17, 2015.

It was on the Sunday of July 6, year 2003) at an Bakora Town Airport that is in Kunzugu Ward, California county, Joosub, Harfanti, who was four years old, had a woman aged 70 years, were in the church to attend this Sunday.
It was the first service to attend with her child who gave birth to a few weeks ago by Marquez, Harbinder Singh after the service came through the famous restaurant of Black Americans' to get food during the day before going back to home.
After getting food when they go back home where they were tested at home in a afternoon before going back to the church in the evening service.
Her husband Joosub, Harfanti from Yanga, called Vincent Kigosi, who was injured in the age of 41 years at that time he had died on July 2, 2003 to the Ugandan city, North Caroline to visit his mother.
Joosub and her children were tested on parole.
It is in that time, a person doesn't know whether he entered into that house through the end of the past, by denying them sexually transmitted infections, Vicente Calderon.
On Tuesday, 8th of July, 2003, morning, the neighborhood and friend of the family called Kelvin De Bruine will be a normal day after hearing someone from his friend, something that was not normal between them, to sit down.
In addition to his efforts to make calls several times in his friend, but all his phones did not be received and he made a decision to visit his friend so as to know where he arrived at the house and found a plot, he was given by Joosub, previous days.
He opened the door but there was something that was giving the door to open up, it was if any roadblock is placed on my house so that the house can use the past.
When he tried to open the door of the mirror, it had not been buried and it was not an ordinary matter for that door to be supported.
That he met with a bad state and without losing time he had an emergency phone police who came for a short time later, it was one hour for the morning.
Police when they arrived at that area met with a bad state that led by Kelvin De Bruyne, making a emergency phone.
Joey wa Mitego was found in a good position in bed and went back and had died by being shot dead in the head and two times in hand, he also was read for a period of seven times.
A six-year old child called Marquez, Harfanti who previously has not been found at the scene of an incident that was found guilty, she was found dead in the edge of her mother who was covered by that river was also died and was killed by being shot dead.
Another child called Marquez, Harfanti from four years and he was found dead in bed and his mother had died.
He had an injury time on the right side of his head, but he didn't have his eyes as the toes of his hand over and it was explained that maybe he saw the investor and in a state of fear, considering the toes.
