
Assistant speaker called for financial institutions.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

The deputy speaker of parliament, Doctor Tulia Ackson, wants financial institutions in the country to reach and benefit many residents of rural areas and areas of the periphery, so that they can get an opportunity.

Doctor Tulia said that in the occasion to launch a modern center for serving the big customers known as "premier league 'of CRDB Bank together with a new yellow card system.
Apart from congratulating the bank for starting that center, Doctor Tulia Ackson, emphasized the importance of financial institutions, to reach citizens that are in the villages to be able to get an opportunity to those who are in urban.
"Various creative services like these are questioning the policies and intention of parliament together with the government in general of wanting to include many citizens in the legal system," said Doctor Tulia.
He also urged citizens to come out with a habit of walking with lot of money and save a big amount of money in homes, instead they are directed to be put on the bank so as to avoid unnecessary accidents.
Speaking about that center together with a new yellow card system, the Executive Director of CRDB, Doctor Charles Kimei said they have decided to launch "premier league service" together with that card to the customers of that group, being the strategies of the bank to improve its services.
He said that in that center, the customers will be able to get unique services that are not one with the customers of other groups.
Doctor Kimei explained that the customers who joined the service will be given a special card known as summoning demons.
Explaining about the new and modern card, the Director of Marketing of the bank Tully Mwambapa said that the card will enable customers to enjoy the international services that are available through Skype.
"The customer who had this new card will be able to get a chance anywhere where he is in the world if I understood with his card, the customer will be used to another card where he is together with being given an emergency money," said the marketing director.
