
Production at an increase of value.
The farmers get a loss after harvesting time due to lack of a place where it is not fit for their crops, so as to make sure the crops are not recognized by their quality, they are not paid by pest or animals and they will not be used without having records.
For lack of a place when it is not fit for many farmers, most of them have left their crops on the internet, as their strategy of expanding their crops on the farm, can get spoilt due to the rains and the ones that were left on the farms can be stolen, they can be eaten by illegal immigrants.
Other farmers know the crops being used in houses that will be paid in livestock. There are other crops that can cause the sickness of animals and even after being supported by the virginity of the animals.
Family members can also be able to bring in little crops for the purpose of using, relatives, and brothers or sell money for expenditure as well as looting.
Many farmers get a loss to lack of their crops, for example the price of maize can be paid 500 shillings but after donating their products before selling them, so as to sell their products and the name of their properties as well as the logo of the sales person.
The spider plant has a logo and correct instructions about the type of products, the quality of products and the name of products can build faith in the user and continue to use that product especially being better, available every time and its price is high.
Farmers can partner with other stakeholders in the whole issue of value to ensure they get the medical services of their produce in a high level that will destroy the quality, security and not getting losses.
What it is needed, the farmer is to pay the cost of preventing and sell its crops, the farmers can partner with other stakeholders' service providers as it is in our culture and the farmer can partner with the farmer to sell maize flour instead of maize itself.
An example of maize can be used in different parts like rice, sunflower and others the ones with industries to ensure they provide services without owning the farmer and they be paid due to the services that they gave.
With the industries' industries, they will agree with the plan to provide services to process, they will get more great benefits more than they get in the system of gruel and farmers.
The park, suppression of people who are getting many crops with a high quality, due to farmers to increase production and caring about the quality of their crops because the farmers will use irrigation farming because the farmers will have a habit of working for a whole year and to make a cost of increasing costs.
The industries that do not affect the crops, they have no cost of interest on loans or costs due to being destroyed crops and sometimes the financial manager can supervise farmers and service providers.
