
Not enough for a car in Dar es Salaam may cost 50,000 shillings.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

In improving and increasing revenue that will help in the development activities in the city of Dar es Salaam, starting from November first this year, the council of the city will start managing the collection of revenue collected from the relevant areas in the villages.

That was said yesterday in the city by the head of the department of protocol and the relations of the council of that city, Gaston Makandege.
He said the collection will be collected through three new agents of the company in Ilala Municipality, Kinondoni and Temeke.
Previously, for a long time the collection of financial funds were taken by the company and don't know Parastatal Pensions Fund (NRF), but now, Kenya's Parastatal Pensions Fund (NRF), but now the Kenya Parastatal Pensions Fund will collect a total of 54 billion shillings for a year.
The Proin Promotion Company has been opened up in the municipal of Kinondoni and is expected to collect 14 billion shillings per year when the Him Investment Center and General Brokers will begin in Temeke Municipality and is required to collect 56 billion shillings per year.
Makaziwe said that the work of controlling the importation of great and motorcycle vehicles in the middle of the city and urban areas have officially been made by the brokerage company of Tambaza, in Ilala Municipality, that work will be made by the company of Kinondoni, the controller of vehicles and motorcycle that will be announced after the completion of the tenders.
He said there are various fine which will be demolished because those who broke the relevant laws and the ones that will help in great and motorcycle vehicles in the middle and Kariakoo areas.
According to Makoko, a fine of 80,000 shillings will be charged with an offense of buying a small car that was breaking the law during a big vehicle for a long time to be charged 50,000 shillings.
Moreover, it has been fined 300,000 shillings which will enable big cars in the areas that are not allowed to pay 50,000 shillings for small vehicles.
Also a fine of 100,000 shillings will rise up for an offense of getting a vehicle of more than 35 tons to 10 areas in the middle and Kariakoo areas, a fine of 50,000 dollars will be sold for motorcycles which will be sold for motorcycles which will be sold for motorcycle riders and cooking oil in the city and Kariakoo.
The vehicles that will be arrested, will be fined shillings per day while a small vehicle will be paid 20,000 shillings.
