
Our farmers have risen to livestock.

It has been written by John Ndeki.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

The farmers of the Maasais' in Kilosa district, Morogoro province, have separated with cold drinks and taking their livestock to vote after being given enough education about the law that is organizing that work and to make sure the security of their livestock.

Kilosa district commissioner, Adam Mayingu, said that the day before yesterday in Mgololo Village, Berlusconi's ward, Kyerwa district, in this district during the tour of Morogoro Provincial Commissioner Doctor Stephen Kebwe aimed at making progress of making livestock.
In the implementation of the implementation of that procedure of understanding and inspecting livestock especially cows in the district, he said that by September 22, this year, the district has succeeded in making a length of 437 tons between 146 votes which were identified in Bergh.
In addition to that, he said the procedure of collection of statistics of the number of breeders and the number of livestock has been completed in 925 percent and up to September 19, in 2014 a total of 5,33,780 farmers have been registered in the register of farmers.
In addition, he said a total of livestock project is 146 votes, 119,681 pupils, 438,953 students despite the presence of another type of livestock which are looking at their homes.
Despite the big challenge that was discovered in some of the areas of breeders of Tufani ', Michungangira who had refused to give data to the number of livestock and refusing to give a gift, among them, it is needed that they are out of their colleagues.
And some of the farmers of Masaai girls who live in Bergh. Speaking at different times during the signing of the donations they requested for its experts to go and give a better education for farmers.
The farmer of that community, Allied Sciences, Wiz Khalifa, said he confessed that some of them collided with the procedure as a result of lack of good understanding and details that do not have explanations about the real meaning of releasing registration, registration and laying of winning.
"The government was not clear in educating us all the farmers, most of us know that the registration are done in a vehicle or a motorcycle by being given a fine of T and his number and not at a cows.
