
They are meeting to provide nuclear education.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

The gospel commission of Tanzania (KEC Company) in collaboration with experts of nuclear technology from various countries of Africa have met in Arusha town to start a strategy of providing technical education through the internet to experts who are in universities in the country.

Speaking to the press during the opening of the meeting that took place yesterday at the headquarters of the commission Njema in the city to involve eight countries including Tanzania, Director of Human Resource Mobilization, Wilfredy has said that plan is good because it aims to increase the number of nuclear experts in the country and will help reduce the cost of going to learn outside the country.
In addition, he said many African countries including Tanzania have been rushing for by lack of experts in nuclear technology, a situation that has contributed itself from technology education in the country and caused many research institutions to lack enough experts.
In addition, he added that the plan to provide education through the internet will help experts who are in universities and research institutions to improve education so that they can give education to other experts and increase the number of nuclear experts in the country.
The acting director of Nyansalwa Primary School, Simon Sirro said Tanzania is born with the shortage of nuclear technology since the number that is not exceed 40 experts who are from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) and Nelson Mandela in the country said until now Tanzania does not have those experts.
Other experts encouraged the agricultural experts who can change the seedlings to the radiation and experts of industries where he has said that their number is still small.
However, he said the strategy being done by those countries will benefit Tanzania by getting skills and expertise in South Africa, Ghana and Morocco which have been successful in that technology, a situation that will enable various experts in the country and eight countries which have benefited from that technical education.
