
Jehovah's witnesses to give priority.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

Two witnesses in the case of theft of theft explained the money of seven billion shillings involving 13 employees of KCB Bank, Arusha province, expected to give their evidence today at the Arusha District Council and Arumeru district in Arusha province.

"September 14th this year, we are expecting to bring two witnesses who are ready to give their evidence," said the government lawyer, Felix Kwelukilwa.
Previously the 14th witness of that case, Hassani Mtenga (48) announced his evidence and has explained the court that he had a business of taking the tourists with the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCAA), by paying American dollars equivalent to Barclays Bank, Arusha City and have never been affected.
Also, who is the director of Tanzania tourism company in Tanzania, said that I have never done business with a private person in the tourism activities for all the years he did in that work.
The suspects in that case at different times between the year 2011 to 2012 are accused of returning from various tourism companies in Arusha and NCAA), by opening six American dollars with different names, Tanzanian money by using the amount of money for money.
The administration of the government should be remembered that some of the workers admitted the police while being quoted saying that the first suspect in that case who was the manager of branch, Baller Allo (34) was accused by being unable to take action against the whole period when he was the manager.
The suspects who are facing that case includes the first lady Glawogger who was appointed by lawyer Adam Jusab, Lilian Mgaya (33) was defended by two lawyers Anord Laizer and Philipo Mushi, the main foundation will be supported by Lawyer Mosses Malunde.
The fifth administration Joyce Kimaro (36) was appointed by Lawyer Laizer and Mushi, the sixth lady Daud Mosha, the seventh suspect, Daud Lweno, will be supported by Lawyer Kelley Mwitasi (50) was appointed by Lawyer Kelley Mwitasi.
The 11th accused in that case that was attended by hundreds of residents of Arusha town is Joseph Meck (34) has no lawyer and the accused of the 12 Janvier BMassawe (32) was supported by Lawyer Laizer and Mushi.
Honorable Mahadhi Juma Kapuya, who is not an employee of gospel music was supported by Laizer and Mushi and the 15 defendant to Deodatha Makani (35) was appointed by Lawyer Kelley Mwitasi.
Some of the four people who are Geffi,, the defendant with eight hundred and Lyimo who are out on bail but also all the others are treated through a mistake of stealing illegal money since that case does not have bond according to the law.
The main bus will be third, Neema Rusibamayila (30) and Martha Chacha, who passed away and succeeded to pay a fine of 230 million shillings and they were released free after paying that fine.
