The Lugalo Club emerged as the winner.

Has been written by Luteni Selemani Semunyu.

It has been reported, 24 October, 2016.

A player of racing courses of Tanzania People's Defense Force, Andrey Coutinho looking at the overall winner in the open tournament of Para C competitions that took place the day before yesterday at the Lugalo Stadium in Dar es Salaam.

Chitanda emerged with the victory and defeating the more than 100 players who came out from all clubs in the country after getting 74 votes while his performance of their game was nine and thus emerging with a total of total goals from 65.
In division A, the victory failed to be eaten by Eden Hazard, from Arusha City after scoring 69 votes while his performance of their performance was three and followed by Juma Likuli of the Lugalo club after winning 68 percent.
On the side of division B, the winner is Doctor James Legg's winner after beating the 84 goals while his performance of their game was 13 and thus having a total of 71 kilometers and followed by Salum Mwalimu of Gymkhana hall in Dar es Salaam, for a total of 71 goals.
Division C on its part in the Coastal Union, the Head of Lugalo emerged victorious in the group after casting a total of 68 percent of his position as 24, followed by captain Amanzi Mandengule of Lugalo who also after getting 69 votes while his performance was 19.
On the side of the group of elders, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Security and National Housing, Job Masima, won by garnering a total of 75 percent of its performance with 18 being followed by Ambassador Clemence Sanga who won a total of 78 identity cards with his level of performance which was 16.
Women on the side of their group, Chiku Galawa Lugalo emerged victorious with a total of 76 billion shillings while his performance of their performance was 10 and followed by Miss Elias Kwesi of Lugalo in the eighth minute while his position is Nane.
In the side of players' players, Nuhu has said that Arusha emerged the winner, Junior Simon of Lugalo emerged victorious after winning 70's goals and on the side of players' Follow-communicable diseases followed by Deo Hassan of Lugalo who won the end.
