
Resident magistrate's investigations the case of Lema.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

It has been published today, September 2016.

Resident magistrate of Arusha Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, Augustino Rwizile said that the attorney general of Arusha town, God bless Lema before October 12th this year.

Moreover, Rwizile said that he wants the lawyer of the government, to make sure that the investigation is ending in time so that October 12 can be able to read the previous information.
Rwizile said that yesterday in the court and claimed that he was surprised to see the charges he is happy to see the face of citizens in the court and going back to homes, something that he does not want.
I want to go back to October 12th this case, two explanations about the previous day without the presence of investigation so as to stop before that day, "he said.
He said the accused of the accused going to the court and when the investigation is still not seen and if the investigation is still required to ensure that the day they come, they should make sure that they see the member of parliament to attend every date of his case, especially on October 12th it will be read the previous explanations in all the two cases.
"Like today you said that you has not mentioned here in court because he is in parliament, that is not a reason I want to get every date of his case," he said.
Lema is being faced with two cases, where the first case is accused by sending a short message of words on September first this year, through number 46711,0747 equivalent to number + 71145775 and 75 percent of the provincial commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo, when you say 'let us use it as usual.
Another case Lema is accused by using WhatsApp and a heart message to write a language of incitement between August first and 26 this year, to convince the citizens of Arusha City to demonstrate to September first this year.
However, Lema who was appointed by Lawyer John Mallya, denied those charges and he is out on bail to October 12th this year, as they wait for the previous explanations.
