The president of Liberia, Erwin Telemans speaking in the country for a three-day work tour in collaboration with his host President Jakaya Kikwete, that has launched a small office for cooperation of African leaders to deal with malaria or in Dar es Salaam city.
The partnership dealing with malaria was started in two thousand and nine of the founders of the President Jakaya Kikwete, among other things you can connect African countries in dealing with malaria so as to reach the objectives of the Millennium Tower in the area.
Speaking at the launch that in the city of Dar es Salaam, Oystein Michelsen, who is the current chairperson of the public and President Kikwete, who was previously the former chairperson of public and President Kikwete, who was previously the previous years of malaria in Africa has reduced by five percent and three steps that are among the success of the instrument.
They have said that through that partnership, members have been connected to power and have a lot of voice so as to enable a great strategies to eradicate malaria that can be used for example the availability of drugs and the truth we have started well now I have started gathering.
We are looking for good needs.
Ambassador Ombeni Sefue we would like to give donations for donations together with non-communicable diseases.
And since it has succeeded but as he explained the president, his family that in three years we started to see namo Jumatatu wakuu wa kampuni za people in Africa.
Us here under fifty percent, Evans Aveva said they are inspiring.
Simba?
Already, all of us made them to get the eyes being called to put baking paper.
It is commissioner I met.
When I come.
We thank Chris Brown here with Wikipedia.
Do not lie!
We tell you one.
Modewjiblog.
Bernard is saying that you do not know what he has faith.
But we are trying to be accountable for the nation.
The late God rest.
Nine of them.
Previously the Minister of Health and Social Welfare in the minute, Hussein Mwinyi said there will be a country member and the partnership has had great success in its strategies to fight malaria where up to now, it has provided ten thousand tons in the country and to reduce malaria drugs in the country and to reduce malaria drugs in the country.
Almighty God, if you are telling you, there are efforts to watch him but today we are here, here is the public offices which is a special strategy of African leaders in fighting corruption because of our expectations.
That, the late does not put the strength in this issue through this and without doubt that we will be able to do well in the fight against malaria and we focus on that our country has already been able to have a lot of good strategies for fighting corruption that are divided into different people including stakeholders in fighting corruption.
I think again Ken Sakali.
