The registrar continuing to carry the organizations that advertise it.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

Registrar of treasury, Lawrence Mafuru has noted that the public organizations in the country are driven by loss and depending on the government and insisted that from now, they will not be assisted again if they will make efforts to maintain and run away.

Mafuru made the remarks in Dar es Salaam yesterday at a special meeting with heads of public organizations in the country about an evaluation of management of those organizations from the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and the Public Accounts Committee (ITA).
Moreover, that meeting also discussed and collecting donations from those organizations for the purpose of helping victims of the earthquake which occurred recently and caused disasters to residents of Kagera Province and the neighboring provinces including Mwanza.
Mafuru said through the committees that were meeting with some of the organizations that attended three weeks ago, the report of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG), it revealed different problems in the inspection of the accounts of those organizations including some being unable to operate on an amount of depending on the government to pay their salaries.
"Came out on these committees include some of the organizations that perform well in its financial issues, let us ask ourselves if you are the executive director when it comes back to work when the organization is supposed to pay again," he said.
Furthermore, Mafuru wanted the organizations that are in bad state due to the debts that resulted from other government institutions including the main government, to ensure that they show his ability on performance and follow up on the debts. Therefore, Mafuru ordered the public organizations to make investment policies in order to eliminate the problem of investing in various projects without productivity.
"Again we urge all the policies that we are supposed to go to us, and everyone is investing in you to change, not you to invest in a problem where you will be you," he said.
