
The Jew of Kizza Besigye is getting injuries.

Kampala, Uganda, a one who was hurt and rushed to the hospital on Wednesday, the police were shot and shivered instead of the veteran followers on the ticket of Forum For Democratic Change Party, Doctor Kizza Besigye.
The police who are led by the commander of Siwema who is led by the police commander of Siang'a ward, instructed Kizza Besigye and his followers should not depend on geothermal power here in Bukore area, but the crowd will continue with them.
This was after the group that was led by elders ask Besigye to sign that camp.
Besigye was living through strength in the middle of police who had been organized to prevent it from the camp.
There is where the police were taken to fire and later they shot a bullet.
A man who was identified as summoning demons, was shot dead in the ball to be taken to Bukore hospital.
Some of the leaders of FDC when they got a small injuries.
Mgalula, who was in that area getting him for preparations for the next general elections.
Elsewhere, a veteran artist, Amen Mbamba, has also identified himself and he's not in the suppression of the opposition that is going on in that country during his campaign.
Mbango, who was given to participate in the session of discussion that was planned to be aired on the Smile Voice and Karima station, (a group of Karoli), in the location.
That period was planned to take place from two o'clock at night until ten o'clock at night, but few minutes before the period started, the station was closed by police.
According to Mbiku of other hackers, the security committee in the district met and decided to protect the program to continue.
In the past few minutes later he met with the journalists at the Mount Meru Hotel and said that "he has deeply saddened her that in this days of the democratic growth, there are things that can arise."
"At the time we arrived today I was told that the security committee in the district met and decided to use the radio station," said Mboma, Tuesday night.
According to the politician, the security officers said that they had been directed by the national commission for elections to allow him to talk about any radio station.
"The commission did not have any authority about this issue and secondly, I am free to talk to any radio station because it is normal during the campaign. I communicate with our colleagues in Kampala," he said.
Previously, Mbijima has said that the public meeting at the Old Trafford stadium in Mkonga area and instead he will be transferred to the small airport of Kidney.
Government officers have also been forced into a sharp object in the ruling party of Nkugwa Elkana in the picture of President Yoweri Museveni.
