
So, is it possible to bring up a child without keys?
Better upbringing makes a stable foundation as it is for the construction of a house, "today we focus on its spherical issue in the upbringing of educating them as it is possible for bringing up their strokes.
Haazu taking you to parents in our community to fight, to the loved ones, to welcome him in a high speed (not pictured) and even discourage their child.
Different from the concept that is built through this way the child gets stranded, are specialists from the growth and the growth is telling us that the child can obey them without enmity.
This is known as you affect the positive news that is being built through a good relationship between the child and his guardian.
The following are four main criteria for building a good foundation of proper upbringing that protects your positive goals and which reaches a sustainable goals of the mother to his child.
Having a long-term goals for your child to make it grow the child since she was born, but many parents do not start this journey without knowing what is the end of this journey?
When you succeed to know the long-term goals for your child, you will be an example to be followed, if you want your child to be good and with a donation to all people and others like that, you will be able to forgive him in those footsteps.
Oshuma Mtengeti, the child for love and communication has improved and communication between the mother and the child to our community get many times more than to attend the clinic (5 years).
In order to protect the good child, you need to have love all the time and give you an important information especially about climate change when he depends on stage, it is not a friend and that a mother is not a must not be afraid but lead them and to value them.
According to the children who we think and feel about different issues, don't understand the feelings of the thoughts of children on different issues according to their age.
You will find that a mother gets a girl or little, an incident that fell without an end at night and in the afternoon, it is good to ask if the child sees even the reason to be played?
There are a lot of things that they are doing in different age and parents use ARVs like how to prevent them without knowing the reasons for children (age) they do.
Look at this way they make sure you are making your habit of hement fans and believe that problems are resolved by a fight.
The punishment is for a short time to understand about different challenges that come from the steps of the growth of the child and how to use a friend and it's not important to the parents.
You will agree with us that 12% of the child or the guardian of the child, because they are waiting to listen to her father while the child entered poor training.
Using the punishment to prevent a child using a short period of a short period of a short-term goals, depending on the requirements of the parent of the time and not a sustainable goals.
12 strokes and the others do you know more in a short time, at a short time, when you sell your eyes directly and it makes a chance to think and learn from a mistake.
Upbringing of changing the child, a mother is depending on that a whole person to be followed and that is not well in the community, do not have to consider these opportunities.
In the opinion and advice, the congratulations to the phone number 116, which is special for the child services in the country, this service will not give payments from all networks in the country and this service will not give payments from all social networks in the country.
Today, today we focus on the issue.
