CCM Mbeya does not mean the name of the opposition.
Dec 16, 2015.

The fear of being elected in the operations of the government of Mbeya City is still holding to the councilors of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), after the council of that city is under the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
The tradition of some councilors of CCM about the government of the city directed by their fellow opposition parties in the country, will not have brought in fear among them, that when they led the council of councilors, the city council did not have ever thought that there is a day they hope to vote for them to move to the opposition.
However, some of the residents of that town have explained the fear that they are suffering from their closeness of themselves, that their administration of administration joined the opposition who today are with leading the city.
In the general elections that took place on October, this year, we will receive the winners in all the three positions in Mbeya Town constituency and for the councilor seat that took place on 26 wards against nine of CCM, a victory that gave the ability to lead the council of that city.
CCM who complained.
In the first session of the council of councilors of that town, some of the councilors of CCM, among them the nominated member of parliament, Mary Mwanjelwa, explained about getting displeased with the plans of the councilors committee.
Contributing to the financial committee, Mary Ngalawa stated the step by the leadership of that council to set a one delegate from CCM, while the remaining coming from parliament, saying that committee has not been done well.
Mary gave that directive as a result of the argument that were unblocked by another councilor of CCM who was seen to be touched by the division of those committees, has claimed that lack of democracy will be avoided.
That statement by the councilors of CCM came out and given instructions that all the things are being done by considering the regulations and procedures that are leading that council.
However, some of the councilors of parliament who spoke to our citizens outside the Mkapa hall organized a session of the council, showed up to be happy about the situation, to the councilors of CCM to complain to be discriminated.
This is a tractor and a penalty of the they were doing so that when they were in many, they will sell their opponents, "said one councilor of parliament asking for not being written in the name.
The mayor of that town, Pastor David Mwashilindi, said that their opponents be sold at the previous cabinet, and defending his new leadership saying it must help them to put a good adviser.
I don't see a lot of problem, in a large extent, we have decided to put the ratio, different from the past, we have mentioned the aim to revenge and we are led by the regulations and procedures that are there, "said Mayor Mwashilindi.
Together with the regulations, the primary issue to Mayor Mwashilindi, is managing justice and considering the broader interests of the city of Mbeya and its people.
Citizens provides a statement.
While those councilors of CCM came out to be discriminated, some of the residents of that town have shown to be surprised by them by the complaints by those councilors, saying that it is an issue of value more than that person's will.
CCM's member of parliament, Stephen Kirambe, is telling them by considering the number of councilors' reputation, where he says in the existing environment now the councilors of CCM are playing in their homes, and that in competition, we will not be a small number of representation.
In the elections of the mayor and the Deputy Mayor, councilors had 34 votes while CCM having 14 votes, thus being left behind by 20 votes, the results put it open in the picture of that council, because every voter is the officer for his party.
In addition to being left out of the number, some of the residents of that town have their councilors of CCM due to their fellow members of parliament, it has been not easy to go down and even leaders of their party.
"As a result of blocking the youths in schools and understanding, the member of parliament said that he wanted to choose the Mayor, they made them to stop without forgetting your eyes, therefore even when he is not a member of parliament," says one of the parliamentarians in the city.
One of the former councilors of CCM, Simon Mwakifamba, says that the problem is not be discriminated, but these are the results of the people not to change, that when someone is in power, he believes that he is in power.
It means that you will use the regulations that are known by CCM, and at the time they did not see its weaknesses, they are very happy, today are being used by those who cause many people and that will fall down.
"My fear will enable you to continue with the previous administration system, something that does not identify the system of running the council, it was not good, it was a lesson," said Mashaka.
Opinions of some councilors and executives are that the previous leadership was normal, it was explained to make groups, and some of them are required to make groups, and some of them don't understand that some councilors had not seen in the previous leadership.
