What happens it was legal as it is.
We were participating in time to time to participate in the tournament which they have organized in this East African region.
We are looking for where we are in the north, west.
It was given, they did not accept it.
Different from her fiancée passes away.
They are getting an indication as to end the clubs from Mainland Tanzania too, I was also true that the week is for a good life.
There is something that has been done?
If the champion club of the Federation Cup that had a lot of things that will be used for a good time, when we speak, we have three cups, who have three cups, winners of the FA cup or the journey will connect winners and win the cup.
In Africa for now, it is the league of African champions now with my grandfather's competition in which we had not like looking at times, we have not found themselves so that I don't like to go up to the continent and be satisfied because many are still continuing to look at the continent and be satisfied because many were still underway.
For me, to get I hope or that there is a problem we must make sure that you enter into the club or there was there are getting into the club.
Whose intention of knowing their responsibility is that their responsibility is big and the game every timber is reduced.
Something that are required to do a working work and also you read it in the whole issue of future, if you go back to John Magufuli.
Still you don't know that in investment, I'm in football especially when we see if we start below and in every step to invest in youths they come up, but it is also easy for a permit.
When you take an expert from outside to bring up players who may not have hospitals, we don't have a lot of fear and think that in the competition there is still a big offence if you find you that there is still a problem when you want to see you feel there.
.
Later it will increase in a short article that it involves itself to give the Azam Soccer Club, Ras Kiduku after playing their communication game as the one I don't know.
If there was a week that the name was surprised to say that for Tanzanians to succeed in the African Football Federation match on claims that his host, the referee for the fight against America, the rapper told me that it's not a long time to give them an agreement against America, the rapper told me that it's not a long time to enable them to pay for him in Tanzania.
.
The heart has given us the bank but being unable to do it is a technician who is not known to me.
Only he has been found.
And that punishment is expected to fail '(Wikipedia) in the games even in our league of Tabora such as required, you will still participate in the Champions League to live with love, then we will get us like we had to go.
Just after it is not know again?
Even when we look at it?
I have given those children that are participating in making that activity, to make sure that we go in Dar es Salaam, you know I have a lot of things.
Also by doing that talents to visit but also.
You know what is Swahili?
Sport planning, but we should realize that every time.
Every corner of every corner.
Everything is played without knowing how you want.
Now.
