

With Mariam Mkunde, J.
The expectations of many parents is to see children when they start schools are forced to receive their studies for higher education levels, even so, those expectations been taken easily in many areas here in the country because many children fail to come from the problem of absenteeism.
Absenteeism in school is a big challenge in the education sector in the country because many schools in different areas are being faced with that challenge as part of the districts that the problem is big together with the district.
Head of that district, Amani Kichama district, says that absenteeism in secondary schools in that district is in a very high level since approximately half of all students who start different schools in that district do not complete their studies due to absenteeism.
Mwikabe has said that absenteeism in this district is by 48 percent to secondary schools while in primary schools it is 26%. "Some of the reasons are being involved in the destruction of minerals together with some of the parents not having a broad understanding about the importance of education to the child."
He says that some of the parents do not like their children and go to school, instead they are forced to protect yourself or do other activities.
Mwikabe has said that for now his office in collaboration with the office of the education officer have a work of searching for all the students who quit the school and work to protect and build gold at different stadiums.
In addition, he says that it's not only to look for students that came out to school, but also an operation is aimed at even men who lost their families and started doing a good direction for life.
He says that the step will help to reduce absenteeism for students in school and to reduce the problem of childhood pregnancies because some of the female students who live in school usually get pregnant.
On his part, the head teacher of Kibosho Secondary School, Ditopile, says that absenteeism for female students has been increasing at a huge level because of the presence of various mines, a situation that causes the girls to prevent the invention and those miners.
"We contributes to absenteeism for female children in various schools in this district, it is men with money for minerals that use those money to lure them," said Teacher Kisongo.
He says that most of them usually happens during the period they lost their homes for a half time, "if they go to home, many female children do not go to their homes, instead they are going for men to live with them as a wife and the husband."
Head teacher said that for the year 2013, for grade four students, those who succeeded to go to form one were only a few.
He gives an example by saying that the students who were required to do the examinations of ending this year is 472 students but not all of them they did not do examinations and among them the female students were 22. "
Moreover, he says that for grade four started students increased from one of the those who did the exams for form four were injured in that school.
