
The elders will consider the benefits of salaries.
All the money that were taken to pension funds were taken to elders.
Julius Mathias and Elias Msuya, The Citizen, popularly known as summoning demons.
Dar es Salaam City, Mkuranga member of parliament has advised President John Magufuli to urge the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG), Professor Mussa Juma Pinto to investigate the pension funds that was taken to the ghost workers for five years so as to be given to the elderly.
While addressing at the first of May first this Sunday in Dodoma town, President Magufuli said that ghost workers have been paid 211,06 billion shillings per month, equivalent to 3061 billion for five years.
The secretary general of the council, Rodrigo Londono, said that as a result of being paid for that salaries, there were also donations that were collected from the community fund from ghost workers.
"In this logic, it means that the Social Security Fund has been receiving donations of ghost workers, given a donation of 10 billion shillings per month, they will find funds that has been receiving a 1 billion shillings per month, 212,150 billion shillings per year, equivalent to 6 billion shillings for five years."
Said Lutara.
He urged the contributions for ghost workers that were collected from that fund for a long time should be made and be used to start the pension fund of elders in the country (those who do work in the official sector and the informal sectors) which have been a cry for the elderly for a long time.
"We thank President Magufuli to give a statement on the fate of 890,536 trillion shillings which the government is alleged to have bags of community conservation, workers and retirees were waiting to listen to the issue on May first," he said.
While Lutara said that, CAG has mentioned the organizations and 11 institutions of government which have been rushing for funds for ghost workers.
Already President Magufuli has urged employers to make sure they contribute towards all the workers in that fund on time.
"There is a period when the treasury was given money in the PSPF fund and the debt came in 710 billion shillings. I have already given an order to the Ministry of Finance and treasury, they have already paid 500 billion shillings for their contribution and having to be infected on the weather," he said.
Regarding the claims of workers, the president said that the government will work to evade ghost workers.
In the inspection of the financial year 2014 / 2015 which she was done in the local government, CAG noted the occurrence of salaries that have no evidence to be taken to the concerned institution including the regional integration of the two provinces, it did not submit 70,0717 million shillings.
He said Sh500,000 shillings 40 million shillings were shown because the actor will cause a fine, interest and punishment, therefore, affecting the bags for failing to reach the planned goals.
For that offense, this happening will come out to the two agents which it did not submit it from its workers of 35643 million.
The Technical Agent of Construction Agency (DDCA) worth 2724 million, 24 million shillings and Technical Services Agency (Tauro), 890,619 million shillings.
The inspection was shown by more than 34 billion shillings being paid to ghost workers from several councils in the country, 4 bronze medals that were given more than 269 billion shillings to the servants that were sent away, absenteeism and died.
48 councils managed by 720927 million for the legal action against the pension funds, financial institutions, the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) and Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) for employees who are not in the public service.
He gave advice to the council to have reports of employees who have resigned, he has died, to stop blogging and to return them so that it can be availed to the list of payments.
