A total of 60 years of the journey of Nyerere.
January 26, 2015.

The council of elders of Tanu under its chairman Sheikh Suleiman Kova, that took the success of Nyerere's journey to the United Nations (UN) to be the first responsibility for preparations of the president of Tanu to United Nations, New York.
In the year 1974, FEST has had the age of forty years old, with great strength when he was in the Central Committee of Tanu together with being a member of the executive committee while he was one of the leaders of the party, he was one of the leaders of the party who started Tanu Press that was in the Kunzugu Ward, Livingstone beach in Dar es Salaam city.
Tanu Press is the one that was coming up and spread by Tanaka magazine, Sauti Sol, Julius Nyerere, and later entertaining the age of age under the elder of Rashid Katunga who had appointed Abdul Chaka to lead that company.
Tanaka used approximately ten thousand shillings and two to allow Nyerere to travel to the United Nations. The executive committee of Abdu Hyghaimo, and Abbas Kandoro who has collected a amount of money from the United Nations. The was used by Pan African Parliament in Lusaka.
He had a lot of money to be washed away from citizens so as to allow Nyerere to do that journey, Doctor John Rupia explaining more than one-thirds of the funds that were needed because other members donated to all their ability but Tanaka in those days, that was still outside his ability.
If you know that the shortage of desks for Nyerere's journey, Idd FEST has been asked by the leadership of Al Social Security who was not allowed to provide money at the Al-governmental fund that is supposed to attend Nyerere, New York City even together with the money from Al-SRHR, it was not supposed to meet the needs.
Al Furqaan Islamic Center was not supposed to arrive that it was not another but asked Idd FGM to go to Tanga and get more money from where Teacher Kikula had already collected the money and he was not ready to be taken and taken to the headquarters.
Tanaka got information that anyone who would have arrived in Tanga to take those funds because of Nyerere's journey, had been arrested before leaving, Oscar Asenga, and John Malisa, the Vice President of Tanaka, went to meet Idd FGM at his home in Ilala to bid farewell and wish him a good journey and giving explanations for short time.
The journey to go to Tanga did not have any problem, but in the time of going back, "Idd FEST has been arrested, he was sent away, but he was not found with the money.
This was quoted saying that the officer who received him because they had a report from the teacher who had taken money from the Teacher Kicheere.
Later Idd FGM?
On the 17 February, 1955, Nyerere left the New York city to address the council of sponsorship of the United Nations. Nyerere enabled him an intention of Tanaka that he has been sent by citizens of Government, to submit the message to follow.
"We see the rules of elections being started by the African institutions to represent in all public institutions, and this is saying, it is according to the conditions of the agreements of sponsorship and article 18 of the United Nations agreement."
