Edward Ngoyai Lowassa receiving a work with a deficit of integrity and freedoms.
Sep 18, 2014.

In the two articles, I wrote and was sworn in in this newspaper two weeks ago I decided to marry off the reputation of a citizen who is happy to be the fifth president.
I thank you for what I received from many readers and those who wanted me to continue with this article, including a vibrant journalist, Johnson Mbwambo, by going back to the content of my article on September 10-16, 2014.
I agree with a great extent and the fear that they have shown about the possibility of candidates to meet the reputation that I gave up, together with his conclusion, the candidates who have been built until now they have a great request for philosophically.
I get back for this article as a result of opinion polls that were given out from different people, including the leaders that have built great honor in our country, many of those who gave their views on how to advise the book about the biography of candidates.
Others collided with my articles on behalf of the promise to visit one of the candidates after another one thought that I will go up so much because, the aides are those candidates have been worried that I will face some candidates and stop their candidates.
Some of the readers and aides are requesting them that I want to visit the candidates and I would like that I urge the citizens who want them themselves and therefore I continue with my request for all the candidates who came out and those who will come up.
I have decided to wake up this responsibility as part of my social responsibility to contribute to themselves in the country to get a leader who will move without forgetting the sun, just before you go to power, if you see Mwalimu Nyerere, our presidents who currently found.
We did not know the sun well, Mzee Mwinyi before he was not elected President, and the same way to Mzee Mkapa, all of them were determined through a similar manner that they were involved without stopping themselves as it is for the presidential candidates today.
Mzee Mwinyi was unblocked by the executive committee of CCM, while Mzee Mkapa was unblocked by the Mwalimu Nyerere without being unable to do so much because it is not a teacher and the executive committee of CCM at that time that it could not be easy to fall in his decisions.
Maybe a small name of President Kikwete before getting into power because he went to power because he went to power in the year 2005 with the name of President Kikwete started doing well for his first time in 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for presidency in the year 1995 when he took and put up a form to vie for the presidency on
Since the time we agreed with the reputation of President Kikwete until he was getting into power in the year 2005, therefore, we did not know the second side of President Kikwete because of his weaknesses, he did not go to power.
All of this is because we have no culture of bringing enough funds to people who want to be our leaders very much, to prove that those candidates are written during the campaign urging them to inform our candidates because this was the request for the knowledge that I want to protect themselves in a period of my articles.
In my analysis, I will endeavor to be true and consider the ethics and professional professionalism so as to avoid favoring any person in the community, I don't expect that this article will not hesitate to believe that these candidates are especially those who lead this country and no one.
I wish you the readers and especially the aides of the candidates that what I wrote here is about the biography of the candidates, because the truth is "a word" and not the biography of a person that she gets when he followed an issue or a shortage.
