The tournament for youth started today.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

It has been witnessed, 19th November 2016.

The Azam Football Federation will begin to kick off today by taking any other teams that will play in that tournament which Yanga is defending champions.

For the first time the cup started officially last season where Yanga won the championship while Azam was playing in the second position even so, Yanga will be forced to release Azam Football Federation at the time it will have a chance to represent Tanzania in the African Champions League.
The game for the tournament will be officially opened by Swaliatu Msuya of Temeke District which will be the away game against Manchester United, a game that will take place at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga.
This season will involve 84 teams where champions of provinces will also participate different from last year where 64 teams before Yanga emerged the champions after beating Azam 3-1.
That tournament will also be aired directly at the Azam television station which is the chief sponsors for five years due to the contract that he got in with Tanzania Football Federation (TFF).
The TFF information officer, Alfred Lucas, said that it is the expectations of the federation to see the competition with competition after the team increased compared to the last year.
The teams that are participating are 22 teams from the provinces, second level are participating in 24 teams the first half teams and the 16 teams.
However, eight teams from every side, the second class, provinces and the first level will play against 16 teams that will play against 16 teams that will play with premier league teams in the third round of that tournament which is expected to end next year.
"The increase in the team has been a solution to lovers and football stakeholders in the country because it has improved and soccer will be played in the whole country, entertainment that has been done for many years especially in some regions," he said.
Lucas urged the clubs that are participating in the tournament of that Cup, they are detected in the high competition since it is the only opportunity to be able to market themselves and be seen because the tournament will be shown one by Azam FC.
Moreover, he said that every team that is participating in that tournament will get a cash money (3,000,000 / - and equipment that will be donated by the sponsor of Azam Media company.
