

While asking for that support to serve them.
By Bashir Nkoromo, Dar es Salaam City.
Normally two people (wife and her husband) when they decided to start life of marriage does not expect their biggest life in the near future.
The child is a must for a important thing that he uses joy and peace in many marriages and that is why people do not come out and there at a long time without getting the child.
I would say that joy by many human beings who have been completed and getting into the marriage life are usually concluded and getting birth to children although it's also Majaliwa of the Almighty God for her pregnant.
The family of the Bambini Journal led by Sara Abood, has been happy and happy, after the Almighty God went to get four female children on April 4, this year, where three among them are female and male children.
Speaking to Mtanzania, he says his wife Sarah Kibonde gave birth to his children at the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) through surgery.
"By true I am surprised the surprise of God, I thank you for waiting for my wife to give safe for a day he went to the clinic and he put me he told me that she has been twins.
"At the time they had three others heard, I've heard a great joy but they were four and she has given birth safe for sure this is no wonder," says the bible.
As we see in the 10 'ward that is in the parents' building where Sara Shaaban, says that he has faith that those twins can be able to inherit the girl and his wife.
"My mother was born with his colleague and my wife at home, there is her sister and her husband who were born," he says.
While he has been happy with the joy of happiness in the near, Mafanga says what he wants to thank God is that until now his wife together with his health of their health are going on well.
"We have two other children, Irene (9) who is in class one by Precision Airplane (5) who has started the previous education this year, because of that, we have six children," he says.
I would like to give them names.
The bombs are saying his family and his wife got the birthday of those twins, he thanked them while everyone is supposed to give the name to one child among them four.
"The truth we have been happy in our family, everyone wants to at least get a chance to give a child even one name to the doctor who led to them my wife feels it is proud that she has done that operation to safe, this issue depends on the names of calling you," he says.
