
Buy the crops on the internet.

It has been written by Thriller '.

It has been released, October 25th, 2016.

Simanjiro District Council in Manyara Region has given a warning to business people who buy goods to farmers at the farm, because that action is to lure them at a low price and it has said it has set strategies to control that situation.

Speaking at the council of councilors yesterday, the administrative secretary of that district, ZhongCheng SOmary, said that the action is a must to be careful so as to protect the state of land conflicts in those farmers.
That sitting was attended by the executive director of that council, Yvonne Cole, Omary said business people have had a habit of going to buy crops being still on the farm, a situation that causes farmers to continue poor households in what he claimed that the farmers sell those crops at a price of losses because they have a bad financial situation at that time.
As a result of that situation, he was banned for business people to do so and ordered the officials of the village and ward to ensure they reach special stations in villages and ward for the purpose of buying crops so as to protect the producer.
"I request for this we like the leaders that we help each other to educate our citizens and understand it, especially considering that the food situation is so bad," he said.
He urged the citizens of that district to know that, the district will not have security, peace and security if there will be no enough food to the citizens in their households, therefore, urged them to recognize that food is important and to make sure there is important and to make sure it is available and to ensure it is available to prevent farmers.
As a result of that situation, he urged the councilors in collaboration with leaders as the executives of the ward and villages, the chairpersons of ensuring that they educate the citizens to save food instead of selling all the whole, so as to help them later as a solution.
The Deputy Chairperson of that council, Albert Manifester has urged the councilors to protect their responsibilities for work performance in serving the citizens.
Meijo has said that the council is facing a lot of problems including the shortage of classrooms despite congratulating the councilors in completing the implementation of desks and urged them to follow the song and moving to the need of classrooms in what he claimed that students are sleeping on the level of buildings.
