
The disabled get treatment.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children has said that they will continue to make sure people with disabilities who do not have the ability to get treatment services at all levels starting from the clinic, health centers, provinces and referral hospitals.

Moreover, he has said by recognizing the importance of health services to all citizens, the government through that ministry is in the process of making laws that will enable all citizens including people with disabilities to get the health insurance cards.
Minister of Health, Ummy Mwalimu said that in his statement about medical services to the disabled people who do not have the ability and said that action will curb restrictions, all citizens including people with disabilities in accessing health services without restrictions of lack of money.
"The ministry would like to give a clarification about the statement by the Federation of People with Disabilities in the country (SHIVYAWATA) about groups of citizens who are supposed to get medical tests in addition, some of the media have been written the instructions that had been issued by the chairperson of SHIVYAWATA, the groups that are required to get treatment services in the country," he said.
He said due to those explanations, the health policy of the year 2007 recognizes that there are citizens who are facing various problems in accessing health services including people with disabilities.
Ummy said that the law of the people with disabilities of 9 of the year 2010, together with other things, it is obvious that people with disabilities have the right to control restrictions in getting health services.
He also said that the government will continue to supervise and ensure special groups including people with disabilities who have no ability to contribute to treatment services get treatment services in all stations for providing health services.
I give instructions to the local government authorities to recognize people with disabilities who do not have the ability to contribute to medical services and strengthen the health services sector, to show any stigma and violence to people with disabilities who come to the centers providing health services.
He said that a servant who will be proven to go against the ethics of the public service and the health profession by making violence and violence to special groups including people with disabilities, will be taken against them including being sacked from work.
"My ministry is making efforts to ensure that it affects all restrictions that attract people with disabilities to get health services, they need to ensure that there is a good environment that will enable them to arrive at the hospital by putting better infrastructure," he said.
