
Ndugai will return to Ukawa, giving a lesson.

It has been written by Angela Semwenda, Dodoma.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The speaker of parliament, Job Ndugai has returned to the parliament for the first time after several months of being treated well and took them inside the opposition party hall, but he told them that the law are required to have a union because their patience is abolished, wisdom, considering the regulations and regulations as well as a Swahili language.

He used that opportunity to ask the members of parliament to fulfill their duties by concentrating on wisdom, wisdom, their patience goes by a union while being able to build a huge argument and use of decency during parliamentary sessions so as to avoid the political tensions.
"I urge you to read and understand the issues that are brought in our country so as to make sure that they are correct," said Ndugai, who was being treated for India.
He thanked the God for electing him to enable him to go back to home and parliament to lead the fourth meeting of the 11 parliament that started yesterday in the city, that was attended by members of parliament of the opposition camp that had participated in parliamentary sessions on June this year.
Ndugai also thanked President John Magufuli for following up his treatment and his health in general, members of parliament, religious leaders, and citizens for praying for them at all time when he was heading to travel.
"I thank my voters for Kongwa for praying for me and especially after getting reports of seeing your member of parliament that I am no longer in the world, but I thank you for you for you," said the Kongwa member of parliament.
When the speaker was giving thanks and going back to parliament, the opposition members of parties that form Ukawa) led by the leader of the opposition camp, Freeman Mbowe have returned to parliament and join their fellow members to continue with the parliamentary activities.
As he continued to give the report of Speaker Ndugai, he thanked the leader by one name of Doctor Maay by leading his treatment who was cooperating with his wife, Doctor Fatma and added that it is an indication that the women can face.
He thanked the leaders that consider the activities of the parliament by leading well the Parliament of the 70's budget which began on April 9 until June 30th this year, he congratulated the deputy speaker, Doctor Tulia Ackson, for good work while not in the picture.
The speaker congratulated the chairpersons of parliament, Mussa Azzan Zungu, Andrew Chenge, and I feel extremely honored and urged them to continue giving her cooperation as he said in front.
Different from the expectations of many, the state of peace and harmony led to the parliament despite the coming of members of parliament who came to parliament for approximately one month to June 30th this year, while the budget of budget started its sessions.
Apart from Mbowe, others who were present were together with God bless Lema, Pastor Peter Msigwa and others in another step, Speaker Ndugai said that in the third step, Speaker Ndugai said that during the three-day meeting was prepared and that President John Magufuli has agreed to be approved by the law.
He mentioned those laws as the law of finance and use of the year 2016, the financial law of January 3 of the year 2016, the law of financial laws of 18 of the year 2016, the law of the Maranga of public purchasing of the fifth of the year 2016.
