
Joseph Kabila of the United Nations.
When the news headline you know that in the system, you can mention the reader so as to get a picture before you put on the content on it.
But after dealing with understanding his intention, even if it doesn't agree with the answer to the truth, "about the question you will have received picture.
In the website of England's news agency (BBC) on the information of education, there is news that was built under that head of information that is known as' Jichunge.'
The story is unacceptable, the beautiful lady of honor in England has proposed to be banned for use of coconut milk.
It is known openly that we are doing all over the world including our here in Tanzania, is used for the purpose of removing the mistakes or loss of a warning that comes from the sun.
For those who use abusive language, use abusive language as we use in offices or another like that person is known as (Famniotic fluid.
With Spurs will continue to resolve the mistakes of pain, in some schools in England and already it has been banned.
Therefore, instead of using amniotic fluid.
But it is also what caused a big part of those schools which quickened the use of 130 schools, it's a probability of the students who come from those who do so as to get pregnant women.
These children do not have different problems and those who we hear you here in Tanzania, pour out a check and of petrol so as to get what they want.
About the spread, the issue that brought up a series of argument and big debate in that country was unblocked after the proposal of the science person Guy from XXL of the University of Physiotherapists in London.
Speaking to the Daily News newspaper last week, Professor Ndalichako said the XXL Program said, "Matatizo 'hitmaker has a normal device because it gives the culture of disrupting this world, it is saying that when I got it," what is how I wrote. "
Instead, we need our culture, who our children do not want to do so, the culture that will make them look for their mistakes and learn through what they did, is not a full list to get a correct answer, "he said.
He added, "you can baptize, instead there is a big possibility that it will help her child," do not know your mistakes, they should not understand because mistakes are your friends and their teachers. "
His statement to abiding to the youth, will be part of the biggest debate that is going on in the country about to stop the culture of providing high-related work, the hearts are given priority to students so as to take advantage of the employment life.
The reporter of Ruby, a book that explains the way to build a habit in students, he said, "schools do not supposed to understand the place to get correct answers so that the exams are supposed to reduce the gap between them as the real world and the way it will place in school."
He has given that directive while also known that many children like disability, which are in every kind of structure and the poor, that is pleasant.
At the moment there are those who support him, most of them put yourself but they agree with his motion about the effects that do themselves as business technologies.
This group is continuing with a danger of bringing up the children of children, who are proud of failing to see children get awareness on how do things do. "
Well, this big group is not supposed to see if they get married, the ones it does not use in their past years and go to school so as to attract students to grow the right understanding of how to use their mistakes.
