
Sunhas been advised to join health insurance.

It has been written by Katoma.

I was published today September 17, 2016.

The community has been advised to join health insurance so that they can protect and give treatment when they get various disasters.
The walk to encourage the community to join insurance company and collect money to contribute to the victims of the earthquake that occurred in Kagera province.

Speaking after finishing the walk, the member of the committee of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo company of the Health Insurance Fund (TELC), Figen Yaredi, said that what happened in Kagera province is supposed to be a lesson to other people to have a procedure of getting insurance including the policies for serving people who had problems.
He said the walk to be followed by the Social Security Fund (Tan Diaries) and the Ministry of Finance (NIDA) with the aim of doing that awareness, together with contributing to the victims of the earthquake which has caused a huge destruction of land, whereby a check of 20 million shillings was given.
"We know where we are supposed to build a culture of joining the health insurance company so as to have sure of our health even when you come from disasters," said Honorable on his part, the Deputy Chairperson of the National Hospital Insurance Fund (AK), Charles Sumbu said, there is an importance of people to join different insurance because it will help to reduce their properties where they will begin the destruction.
"Insurance is a program for development of the nation because it helps to protect their business, but it will also help the business people and the private people to avoid losses when the problems of their property will be caused by disaster," he said.
While giving thanks after receiving a check of 20 million shillings, the coordinator of disaster in the office of the prime minister, Edgar Sanga said that Kagera people still need the donation thus people and various companies are urged to continue contributing to the victims that the earthquake occurred last Saturday and caused more than 800 deaths.
