
Citizens to collaborate with the police to distribute terrorism at an accident.
A situation which is found in the front line is the security of the citizens after a terrorist group passed the fire weapons and managed to boycott the citizens.
He added that Lamu and Tina River is a mirror that does it easy to be used.
It is dangerous that these enemies have been able to ensure citizens do not have peace and that they live in fear.
When we walk to fight against terrorism it is also good for drivers to know that they must be able to ensure they are running their vehicles keenly, that is when the lives of citizens be safe.
At the time what is needed is the citizens to be eyes and cooperating with all security units, that is so terrorism and laziness of following the road safety laws, where our roads should not be careful.
It is very easy for the ordinary Kenyans to identify every one who is close to them.
The areas where there are gatherings of people from different types, especially in special protection, and also remove those who have the responsibility to see that they are focusing on every step to protect people.
John Pombe Magufuli, will arrive at the education sector to be strengthen we are expected to attend this year 2016, there are several things that I was in the same way with the patriotism I would like to be dealt with.
The first issue is in the education sector so as to get the most importantly, it is a must and it is a must to invest in education.
An issue of the conflict that is going on between the commission of serving the teachers, TSC and the union of teachers in Kenya, is a must to end.
And end to him, it is every sides to inform me while the instructions of the same time goes and I hope that there will be no strike.
A reminder that I urge you to prevent Al-Shabaab?
Is the construction of the wall of preventing the terrorists of Al Shabaab who have been problems to the citizens of Kenya, has reached where?
The construction was to be discussed by the youth service of the nation (NRF) but what happened to the organization is corruption that is causing the every one in the country being surprised.
Questions that many citizens asked, they asked the funds that have been set aside, I had been taken to the government regarding the verification of few people.
If it is a fact that more than 791 million shillings were stolen from Nicrox, while the Ministry of Natural Resources and Somalia are the construction will continue with Christmas and new year 2016, but we look at a new year that is okay and we are looking at a new year that is affected by many challenges.
I know many people were written during that season and some of them take the new course of life.
To Christians we are all over the world, this time, especially the 25th October, the day before yesterday, Mwokozi, Jesus Christ, was born on behalf of this country celebrating 51 years after Kenya got independence and finally be the Democratic Republic of Tanzania.
Many have been seen since I have been buried and they have left many questions if our country got independence.
In the rules of his soul in mind, Professor Ken Nyauhenga is showing on how to purchase the whites who kidnapped the Africans where the age of age did not depend on anything that was seen to bring productivity.
After you have been cheated in the past.
The parents of our obligations in conservation of the environment is an important thing that all Kenyans must be taught in order for them to be discussed as a result of our ignorance and not to remove it.
Many meetings by putting strategies of protecting the environment has been prepared in the European nations to a long time but its results are not seen to bring fruits in any way.
As a result of that, a primary thing and the great importance is for us to stand firm and conserve the environment for all ways.
It is our responsibility starting from us at home for planting trees in large numbers to avoid the environment of the environment through smoke and even chemicals in rivers.
Dennis Kadyage has gone down.
