The interests of CUF are in UKAWA.
Jide 22, 2015.

Who is looking for his fellow need in UKAWA which CUF or member of parliament are the challenges that are facing them to oppose their lives?
Ukawa is set aside who will benefit, and what does not depend on who will let me know what I could use this questions, the truth is that I don't know here is my view.
CHADEMA is a big party of the opposition because CUF is following the size of the opposition even so, among the two parties, each one has been accepted by one side of the United Republic of CHADEMA, I'm in Tanzania Mainland, CUF.
Basically, these parties have been accepted well in different areas where CUF is needed so as CUF, we are supposed to say that CUF has great strength in Zanzibar, so also in the northern regions and the Southern Highlands, it may not have all districts in the provinces.
Other areas of the country, as Dar es Salaam and the Lake Region, all the two parties have the strength of the origin and the state of the district to district.
All the two parties have energy in different areas because they are forced to attract different community groups including CUF, a political party, especially the Swahili people in Dar es Salaam city has reduced the areas that CUF has dropped out of low-income people (not all) but also a certain Swahili language.
CHADEMA is a party that is attracting people of the low level, but not the ones that would be cared for 'Swahili language "but the strength especially the parliament is due to the low-income people, scholars.
Although we do not discuss our religion in Tanzania, the truth you will remain that the community is disrupting our parties in Christianity, and who will make sure that there is a relationship between the people of the party and the religious faith?
I will be able to get a lot in religion that basically I have mentioned to insisted on my motion that you will enable CUF to help him and that the followers of the party come from different community groups.
Therefore, if the two parties have a great objectives of removing CCM from power, the benefit and fast efficiency can be available in conjunction with even the presidential, in order to bring to her the government in parliament, the opposition will need a big number of members of parliament.
By saying that in the provinces and maybe the ward, parties of UKAWA which made two things the first two, will put candidates in few constituencies which they believe they have strength and therefore using their few resources in the small area which will give them success.
Secondly, the partnership is reducing enemies and two years experience shows a total of opposition votes in some of the regions was great than the votes of CCM.
After the election, this partnership will help all parties to use their big number to be able to prevent the government through the partnership of the political parties especially CUF and parliament, it is important for the interests of the nation, but it will also help all parties to grow by getting good results.
The good thing is that universities in this union, CUF and parliament will have strength in different areas and to attract different community groups, an issue that makes it further than compete.
But this is a result of the diversity when they joined the parties of UKAWA in doubt, especially when you come to the debate on the issue of who will fly the Ukawa flag in the presidential position.
The difference of the community groups that support these parties is very high to the extent that the close member of UVCCM is saying that his party will get CCM more than joining CUF and CUF as well as CUF.
Last week, CUF also praised CUF's campaigns to help President Kikwete in the year 2010 when the followers of the party had been directed to serve Kikwete so that Doctor Kizza Besigye has decided to win.
Due to the difference of the community groups that are behind the parties of UKAWA, I was surprised to be approved on parole.
Often when you read the CUF not in the session of discussion of the parties that made up the union and then the leaders of the party wanted them to ensure that their party have had a green shirt and wanted them to be first.
Kiango, there is a situation of not preventing each other and there is fear of an issue and there is fear of the issue of unemployment as a candle is ending the others while you put it.
But in general, this partnership is important for the interests of the nation and even to the interests of the concerned parties especially CUF who are the ones that mentioned to be taught.
