We are not seen, a person with the disabled can go to the province.
He allowed me.
Yes, he wants the achievements, I request it to end there.
Political parties only are the proposed constitution that has given an opportunity to get the authority in the decisions, maybe also political parties in accordance with two hundred articles without plans and being required to every political party.
Iran will have the policies and law and the constitution, article two, commission as I have graduated from the farm, welcome him and read the citizens.
Especially when it is looking for two twenty four hours.
He has directed political parties in the constitution and public funds to work and to do elections, the God give us the issue that we came to make sure there is a member of the two sides of two hundred and eight states that the party will be required to do political activities if they are expected to be signed according to the law.
And two will not be legal for any political party to be employed while due to the constitution.
Almighty God is intending to grow and fight for the interests of one article about anything or any religious group and you have any group of transmitting news from people.
Color or also third in any other area in any part of the United Republic, but without informing them.
United Republic of Tanzania.
It's not accepted or fight for a difficult use in the fight as a way to reach its goals.
We are going back or is intending to run its political activities to look for one place of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Or but you are not right, with his leadership to be elected by considering.
People living with disability and the sponsors are all the two sides of the union through a little way for reasons.
Human because of time continue and it means that here of political party has risen to the constitution and human beings.
Register it is sure that the head people with water do not do that is continuing the party to do that I will not affect the owners.
Why should it be for the first time the history of political parties for the cotton constitution to ensure the citizens like the constitution and today is a representative singing first inside the party, the leadership of the party but even they stop stopping the candidates.
If we do that we are going to court, he said that the party has taken a constitution.
That behavior has been done by one of the animals that are affecting the university.
Also, but without being wanted.
Therefore, it aims to make sure that nation was sold to them through the violence of being able to use various councilorship positions for how many of the child, but it did not end up because there is a threat in people.
The proposed constitution is on the two eight hours in the world has shown that during the same time.
.
Services and in the union institutions are asked of pregnancy and meeting with people.
Because it means that when it take their skills of such kind, it should be the representatives of the board to be the commissioners from heads of districts that cause words to know.
We must inform us that there is a member of people with that same time I have told us through Africa, Mister stable, and ministries and at home because it should be in the union because if the great position was done, it has been a lawyer.
Another thing.
