
EWURA to announce the price of gas.

It has been written by Frank Kibiki.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

The Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), will start giving an affordable price to cooking oil, which are from the oil refining company, procedure that is expected to start on January next year.

The Director of the Education Department of EWURA, Godwin Samwel said that the day before yesterday in Iringa when the authority did a seminar for oil business people from Iringa and Njombe provinces.
Apart from being given the responsibilities of EWURA to control the oil business in the country, those business people have been questioned on how law and regulations are working on the control of electricity sector in the country.
While clarifying about the control of gas prices of cooking, Samuel said after EWURA to do a meeting with the stakeholders in that sector, later this year it will complete the regulations of planning the price that will start being used early in the year.
"The prices will be faced with those of petrol products, but currently the business people should consider the prices offered by the companies that sell gas to gas," he said.
At the same time, EWURA has urged all the traders of cooking oil to be in the port for measuring gas that are similar to the law as required, otherwise, they will be forced to pay a fine of three million shillings to five million shillings, otherwise, they will be able to pay a fine of three million shillings to cooking oil without having a license to EWURA.
According to the regulations, EWURA is the responsibility of giving a total of a total of that business and the licenses of that business, "he said.
Previously, the Executive Director of EWURA Felix Ngamlagosi said the authority has a responsibility of controlling the energy services (electricity, gas and natural gas), water and environmental cleanliness, by using a special system that deals with all stakeholders before making the decisions of control.
