
Most of every day do not allow me to bring closer to them.
All over the world all artists talk about different ways to attract their lovers to listen, to view or buy their work.
These treatments are far compared to the type of market and culture.
How they use the American artists are different from India, Nigeria or South Africa different from the steps of the concerned market.
Here in the country, there is also a procedure to prepare well before the artist went to the song or film in the market. They can baptize?
That is an artist before giving his work, you look for a risk of getting married and they are ensuring that they are complaining every time in any way.
Today I am talking to music artists and film artists who are cooperating in making the sun so as to ensure that people are talking about to come with the new work.
The issue to American artists is normal, but now it continues to rule among the artists of Bongo who believe without the scandal, can't succeed.
I can say that this article was started by the singer Diamond, before giving a job that will enable them to discuss everything that will enable people to discuss all acts that is on the radio, television, newspapers and social media networks.
Most of the time he performed so when he was with his lover Wema Sepetu, who passed away from time to time, that situation made people especially women who love art and artists to discuss and there be a new job and to give him popularity.
They love this so as to capture the eyes of the people due to the scandal, addressing the song people continue to follow up on how to know it has come and what is his video or his video.
Many times the style is used by artists who have been silent for some time in the industry, therefore the arrest of people to listen to their new arrivals.
The scandal may be love between two people or a certain group.
The example of another artist who made the song before releasing the song Ommy Dimpoz has claimed to be the lover of his former in-law, Wema Sepetu after leaving with his friend Diamond Platinumz.
That step was forced to journalists to write the news and also be a talk in social media networks.
After retiring from their fans by emerging the new love Ommy Dimpoz has removed his song that is called Race.
The news of leaving Shilole and Nuh Mziwanda appears to be the fire incidence of the farm, while it was noted that the new song to promote her work because last month, he entered into a tension with his fellow artist, Vanessa Mdee and broke the fight against each other on social media networks.
Later it was noted that the aim of all the noise was to promote their show, that was held in Club Billnas, two days after cases, bad luck and incitement among them.
The other one is Dogo Janja after being silent for several years now, he was sent by a new song with his leadership of Tip Top Connection.
Maybe the artists have never asked yourself or bad results of the issue, instead now it has become every person when he is looking for the scandal at that time.
That issue has been putting off the value and went up to him their fans without knowing because the scandal that is caused by their fans and see you are done to small children.
Many cases have not allowed the artist more than serving its status and mocking him among the community members.
