The representatives form very delicious.
December 23, 2014.

I have written the last article that the language is important in Diplomacy, because the big percentage of Diplomacy, are happening through other ways of Diplomacy, but even the other ways of Diplomacy, can succeed in doing his work as words that will not be said.

But we have no reason to recognize that the language is an expert that is used to carry the thoughts, thoughts, the concept of knowing that you are saying in that language it is equal to carry the box that appeared inside, but in which the language has thrown.

In addition we have no reason to realize that everything goes for human beings they do not have to be used in our country to say that we cannot use the English language, and we use this saying that we cannot use the English language, and we use this phrase, to say that we cannot use the English language.

This is another meaning that our colleagues are not the British who are people with their natural language, and the English have learned if there is a foreign language, because there is no language, because there is no language, or any thing that does not learn.

By bad luck, our incident of "Loliondo treatment" is what we believe that we can know the things without learn, and if we don't know then it is because those things don't know, in what I wanted to know, in what I wanted to know, in what I believe in many years ago under the word of the English "there is land."

This word has a meaning of a person, or the community, or a group of people, or the country to look for all his ability, ignorance, and dealing with each issue that shows the danger of wanting to remove the ignorance of not knowing.

Therefore, we have talked to our colleagues in the English language, and therefore, it is the way we have contributed to the skills of Swahili language, because they know what we have put him in an amazing position, not like Shaaban Robert if we are doing what we want to accept it.

In short, our representatives have no reason to have the language of the language he is ready to show that in a certain state we can use even our natural resources, when we have we have a lot of information that is good and we should learn about him and to learn with fluency.

We see this that the country was dominated by France, Senegal and Algeria which have diplomats that speak English more and they are being used in the international sector because we think that we have human beings even though they are supposed to do the Kenyans.
Skills of language, if you are the skills of many other things, it results from reading.

In addition, we need to have the representatives who know many issues concerning the world, history, philosophy, science, and technology, most of your skills and professionalism at these help do not have a lot of skills and professionalism at these help.

You're very delicious with a person and fashion designers who are also similar to with the skills of the language and knowledge, it does not have a meaning of wearing a bad price in the morning when the activity takes place in the morning when the project is clean, enough, enough for a suit 'Personally' in the support of a coat.

Our people have a habit of preventing people from outside, and these behaviors are required to learn even if they get into the toes, the left is good and therefore they receive, and so on it's not a must to rise up, and therefore it's not a lesson.

I don't have sure that our representatives understand the behavior of table as it was done in the past, because these are important so that you can be able to entertain and enjoy a lot of food even if you're blocking him from you or passport.

In general, together with the skills of world issues, together with the skills of the language, you have the ability to explain themselves and to kill them and to listen, it is good to build a sharp teeth.

I thank you just after I heard that this issue that concern all diplomats, ambassadors, heads of government departments, ministers, permanent secretaries, heads of provinces and district, and all those who communicate with foreign people, because all of them are diplomats.
