
Billions of collected the earthquake.

It has been written by our journalists.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

While the deaths of victims of the earthquake in Kagera province have been increasing and to 17, the leadership of the province, have said that they are needed more than 23 billion shillings for the purpose of various victims, and already the government yesterday changed and found more than 1 billion shillings.

Among those funds that were found, 700 million shillings had a promise, cash money 200 million shillings, 10,000 American dollars, 10,000 shillings and 2800 bags of cement.
The oil company of Oilcom, a piece of cement, has succeeded to build two secondary schools that were affected by the earthquake last Saturday, 10 o'clock in the afternoon, Bukoba town was faced with an earthquake which was 57 and 7 by using abusive language. "
The size is very high to the extent of bringing huge effects including falling on the house, other than 17 people have died and hundreds of people were injured.
Provincial Commissioner of Kagera, Salum Kijuu said that after the provincial disaster Committee and the security committee from the office of the Prime Minister together with the Minister of State, Office of the Prime Minister, Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labor, Youth, Employment and Children, Jenista Mhagama, made a quick evaluation and identify the needs for citizens affected.
Kijuu urged the citizens, stakeholders and friends that were touched by that disaster in the province and outside the province, to build their contributions through the disaster accounts that is in the CRDB Bank with a total of 156,258,448 shillings and those who are abroad to get in touch with his office for more instructions.
He mentioned the important needs to be working quickly are medicine, treatment and treatment equipment, medical equipment valued at 1200 million shillings, cement bags worth 75 million shillings, whereby a total of 2800 million shillings.
Majaliwa contributes a total of 1-4 / = shillings saying that, Majaliwa has forced business people together with ambassadors, to contribute to and raising more than 1 billion shillings.
In a short event that was held at State House in Dar es Salaam City, Prime Minister Majaliwa explained that due to the big earthquake, it has advised the government to pay two secondary schools which have been tested in Nyakato Primary School.
Prime Minister said that earthquake is big which has never happened in the country, therefore it was not expected and there was no preparations to deal with that situation.
He said that until yesterday 17 people were died while 253 injured and countries were in the hospital with many things together with the infrastructure being destroyed.
In four primary schools in Nyakato Primary School, Kashimba and Moshono locations, have been destroyed, including toilets, teachers, schools, schools and students have been destroyed, together with hospitals and health centers have been destroyed.
He said there are some areas where the situation is bad and they need a donation where 840 houses have collapsed due to houses and 1,64 buildings being faced with a disaster committee in the province together with its leaders, are continuing to conduct an evaluation to an amount of loss.
He said the government has made efforts in fulfilling their lives of its citizens and three ministers who are in the province to check the way to deal with the disasters, which is the minister of construction, Professor Makame Mbarawa and the minister of state in his office, Jenista Mhagama.
He said through the disaster unit in the office of the Prime Minister opened the account in CRDB Bank, as they continue with the preparations to get the number of contributing to mobile phones while thanking the members of parliament who decided to contribute to the disaster by taking their allowances for the day of yesterday.
Ambassadors, business people of the community of ambassadors, the ambassador of Zimbabwe in the country, Edusei of Chimala, said due to the report that, suddenly and they are in different places in the world, they succeeded and presented their donations including the embassy of China, that has given 100 million shillings to the Kuwait Embassy for 50 million shillings.
Also, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the East African Cooperation, gave a donation of its 10 million employees while in the walk to raising money to the victims of that earthquake that will take place on Saturday this week.
The secretary general of that ministry, Doctor Azim Mount said that they have started to hand over those funds which are the contribution of employees, but on Saturday they have invited various stakeholders in the walk that they will contribute more.
The chairman of the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Reginald Mengi, said that your business people in ensuring they face the problem and congratulating the government for quick action that they took to deal with those disasters.
A lot of 110 million shillings, Mohammed Dewji (MeTL) through the Chief Executive Officer, Mohamed Dewji gave 100 million shillings, Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) shillings 100 million shillings while the Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency (TBL) has promised to contribute after the ongoing session today.
Speaking at that event, the Minister of Industry Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage thanked traders and ambassadors for those contributions and requested them to be found quickly so as to help the citizens of that province to return to their normal life.
RC, explained further, Kijuu said that secondary schools in Nyakato Primary School in last, for a period of two weeks due to its infrastructure getting married, which are classrooms, toilets, toilets and dormitories after they were allowed to return to their families after being affected by their families.
He said the disaster Committee from now has built the infrastructure for a period of two weeks so as to go back to his normal state and the students return to school to continue with their studies as usual.
Also the government has made efforts to bring health experts who are six specialist doctors from Bugando Referral Hospital in Mwanza town to provide assistance to patients who need more help in education as the embassy of China put a total of helping treatment to those victims.
Furthermore, in the investigation that was done by the experts from the Meteorological Agency of Tanzania (GST) about the earthquake that it is the center of that earthquake that is in a lot of land by considering the occurrence of the earthquake which was caused by fire outbreaks that have been tested in the reserve area.
Also the regional government in collaboration with various stakeholders especially experts from GST have organized different stations in the province so as to provide information on how to take precautions before the earthquake, the office of the president, regional administration and local governments (Tamisemi), George Simbachawene on behalf of the prime minister, the office of the president, said the earthquake has a total of 57th time in the tests.
"Rankings," by yesterday caused the deaths of 17 people and injured approximately 2 people, among them have been admitted to the hospital.
He said that the residential houses that fell were 840, while the residential houses with a crack can be 11,264 and buildings of the institutions that were reported to be 44 shillings due to those effects, the government has announced several steps including preventing and taking them to the hospital for treatment.
It has also gave them residential houses some of the citizens who have affected their houses, affected by the government, it has also increased the power of 15 specialist doctors from Mwanza province so as to help them to provide quick services to the victims, while causing the citizens to register each other.
He said that the government has also been able to give explanations of this matter so as to remove the fear of the citizens about that situation.
The report has said that the government is continuing to ensure special steps are being taken by partnering with other stakeholders to ensure that the short-term and long-term steps were identified and implemented in order to help the victims.
At the time going on, the government continues to conduct an evaluation of the effects that was caused by an earthquake due to that disaster, the government has requested stakeholders of internal and foreign stakeholders who want to contribute to the victims, to get in search of the disaster.
"Citizens are asked to be patient and continue to cooperate with the government in solving the problem which he got in the country so that citizens can continue getting services according to the effects of the earthquake," said Simbachawene.
Members of parliament are supporting in living and being touched by the incident, members of parliament yesterday joined the government's efforts to have any one-day allowances, equivalent to 298 shillings per day so as to contribute to the disaster.
The parliament has 389 members.
That decision resulted from the argument of the member of parliament for Mlalo, Rashid Shangazi (CCM) who asked the parliament to have the debate that was on the table of law bill of the laboratory authority of the chief chemist of 2016 to discuss the earthquake which is emergency.
When he requested the members of parliament to discuss a period of half hours during that issue and contribute to their one-day work, the deputy speaker, Doctor Tulia Ackson, received a request of Shangazi and said that he will allow the debate because the regulations allow them.
However, he said that which will be discussed include an emergency issue and the contribution of members of parliament, but not to discuss the aim of the government about the earthquake that was given by the prime minister.
However, in a surprising way, the Kawe member of parliament, Halima Mdee (CCM) has shown lack of discipline in front of the parliament and the deputy speaker of parliament who was a finger to Doctor Tulia Ackson, an issue that made him put any worries at the seat of the leadership in parliament.
Mdee has given the deputy speaker called Vanessa Mdee, saying, "Honorable Halima Mdee has left her finger to the chairperson, just after handing over a warning to the parliament while members of parliament came to address the citizens that had caused the earthquake especially the municipal of Bukoba.
"We thank God, the incident happened in the afternoon, if it would have been major mistakes since the incident.
The Member of Parliament of Tarime rural, John Heche (CCM), said the incident of the earthquake has to support the members of parliament of all the camp because the parliament is a agency for citizens and requested members of parliament without caring for ideology and help them to deal with the disaster.
He joined the argument of contributing to the allowances of the day before yesterday, although he said that for their part, their opponents had received 100,000 shillings each one for the purpose of helping victims of the incident.
Nominated member of parliament, Zainab Abdallah Kihato (CCM), accompanied with the motion of contributing to their day allowances and added that the issue has raised feelings of people and warned politicians that not using the disaster.
Vaquina congratulated the government for its efforts since the occurrence of the incident, but he insisted that the need to be given more education to deal with disaster and ways of preventing people led to emergency events like that earthquake.
Mkuranga member of parliament, Professor Anna Tibaijuka (CCM) said he has passed from Bukoba and stated that he has witnessed the bad state in areas that were affected by the earthquake and added that it is the support of God only that has resulted in disaster.
He said that the issue is not political and that citizens need solutions to make sure that nation can be one without caring for their ideology and urged the evaluation to be done professionally.
He mentioned some of the areas where he visited and saw the great effects including the Bukoba Municipality, where he said among three, three houses have been destroyed, therefore it needs good evaluation so as to identify if the relevant area is suitable for building or people should leave.
Buchosa member of parliament who is also the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Charles Tizeba said the earthquake has caused huge destruction in Kagera province although other areas have been touched in Mwanza, Geita and Shinyanga.
Just after the members of parliament started contributing to the deputy speaker, Doctor Tulia Ackson, questioned the parliament that together with the support of allowances for the purpose of contributing to the victims of the earthquake.
While giving thanks on behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Lands, Housing and Development, William Lukuvi thanked the members of parliament for giving support to support and support the whole parliament.
This is this issue of all of us, since we are our culture of helping and analyzes other things like this, the government is promising your contribution to reach those targeted as intended, "he said.
He added that the government starts that issue with its size as it is the reason, President John Magufuli postponed his work tour in Lusaka, Zambia and the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa in Dar es Salaam city when he was meeting with experts and international stakeholders to see how they were out with the disaster of that incident.
The effects of Bukoba said the Bukoba Municipality is the ones that was affected, since it has lost 15 people who died from that earthquake while 142 out of 25000 people.
In addition, 753 houses have collapsed in Bukoba Municipality only, with 1,037 houses caused a mosquito.
On the side of the institution, he said that the old secondary school has been forced to be beaten due to big destruction, because the earthquake has already brought down the school's hall, only six others being mentioned to get married and not to be removed by students.
In addition, 16 classrooms have been closed, while 25 toilets were destroyed together with two hundred houses, three houses for teachers have collapsed and 17 have received a mosquito.
The report has been explained at the church and in the field where three laboratories got a mosquito when the trap of one of the pillar that fell in another school which was badly destroyed and didn't be for the same time when they get a mosquito.
Moreover, five houses of classrooms have been destroyed by the 15 others when they get the truth.
Also, the earthquake has destroyed one building of the administration, eight houses for teachers which are not supposed to use while 17 got the effects of the earthquake that is facing the council of Bukoba district, Missouri, Muleba and District.
