
Imprisonment for 90 years by using A47 million during.

It has been written by Pickup,.

It has been published today, September 2016.

Mlele District Court in Katavi province had three people to serve the imprisonment of 90 years after being found guilty of the killing of the weapons and oppose more than six million shillings.

The refugees are Shaban Hamis (35) a resident of Ihanga village, Mlele District, Masoud Ramadhan (33) a resident of Zongomela Area, Mlele District, Ramadhani Kailima (22) a resident of Magubike village in Tabora province where everyone will serve 30 years in prison.
The judge in charge of that court, Teezy to Swai giving that judgment after the three people denied their mistakes.
"I have given a stern warning to the accused so that it can be a lesson not to them only to others with such behaviors, because the offense of the referees to be joined by using his weapon is a sentence of 30 years in prison for every suspect," said Judge Swai.
The soldier of the police force, Baraka Da Prince has claimed that those people together were waiting for that offense on August 21, this year at eight o'clock at night, at Zongomela Area, Mlele District.
It was claimed that the night of those accused were with heavy weapons of Areas.
47 is seen to sign a business shop, Jonas David in an ancient attack and brought him more than six million shillings.
The prosecutor general added that those accused were arrested on September 16, this year when they were at the visitors' house, Isanzu primary school in Inyonga area, Mlele District preparing to stop the funds of tobacco.
It was claimed that after being arrested and questioned him, they were involved in a total of six million shillings and they defeated the police up to Yakemikali ward and showed that they had flooded the AK machine.
The three candidates have also been killed by other charges of invading the house of a resident of Kalege village, Mlele District, Patrick Nchimbi and removed the cash money including VFLWho Lives Matic and mobile phones by collaborating with a value of 31 million shillings.
The three suspect also were facing a case of killing a businessman Jonas David by scoring a shot while they did not want to answer that charge because the court does not have the authority to listen to that case of murder, he insisted that the High Court alone.
