
Mbijima has urged the chief medical officer.

It has been written by Raymond Mihayo, Kahama.

It has been published in October, 2016.

The national national stadium leader George Mbijima has urged the police force commander for Shinyanga province, Mria, on Tuesday to put off his duties as the head of Kahama District Hospital, Bruno Minja for being unable to implement his duties in work and asked the chief physician in charge.

The directive was issued by the leader of the torch races shortly after being handed over the Uhuru torch from Tabora province by the head of Tabora Province, Aggrey Mwanri, at the Bukhai village, here in the district the day before yesterday.
The leader told the arrest of the chief medical officer of Kahama Town Hospital, Minja, in an first event of opening the Isakemikali ward, where the chief medical officer was required to be in that launch, to give him the responsibility to the chief physician in charge, Joseph Ngowi.
Mbiku after arriving at that clinic for the opening and putting the foundation stone, when he asked about the existence of the chief physician in order to give the visitors' book, instead the work was unable to implement his responsibilities and leave the shivered.
"Directed the police commander of Shinyanga province ensure that you get the chief medical officer of the hospital and put him in order to give a full information about the chief physician in charge, who does not know what was going on in this clinic.
And also how come the book of signing the visitors that came out while he was even at the scene of the incident as our host our host, "said Mbijima.
The executive director of the Council of Kahama town, Anderson Simon Msuha speaking about the arrest of his arrest and put inside the chief medical officer, he said he had a big offence to put the senior responsibilities in the whole national activities while considering that the chief player is.
However, Musomba wanted all executives who are responsible for the projects which the Uhuru torch will relocate and put aside the foundation of the existence of time in their stations, the situation will make the whole exercise to be completed quickly due to projects being close to them.
The torch of Uhuru is expected to inspect and put off the foundation stone in 62 projects in Shinyanga province while projects that were unblocked by the citizens as well as the non-governmental organization cost 500 billion shillings.
The slogan of this year is "youth, is the strength of the nation, they should be taught with them."
