
Simba, Azam and blood.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been published in 15th of September.

Having lost approximately two days to take place in the premier league match between Azam and Simba, those teams have been pressure on every side of winning that match.

Those teams are expected to meet tomorrow at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam in a match that is expected to be spread by the opposition in those teams meet.
The day after tomorrow, everyone is vying to sit on the top of the position since all of the match has 10 points having gone into everything in four matches that it has played.
The pressure for that match started since the beginning of this week there are few whereby Azam refused to play at Uhuru stadium, wanting to play at the Azam Complex stadium in Chamazi because they are the hosts of that match.
Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) together with the league board they refused the issue wanting the match to be played at Uhuru because of security reasons.
However, after the short discussion, the executive director of Azam, Saad Kawemba, said that they have agreed to play the match Uhuru but wanted to be visitors and not the host, something that has also been accepted by TFF and the board's board should be the host or the guest of what to play football, "said Manara.
Speaking about the preparations towards that game, the captain of Simba, Jonas Mkude, said their team is in the camp and they have faith in winning the day after tomorrow, "we are full of our goals to get three points and already our coach Joseph Omog is saying what he will use since he has trained Azam FC."
He said he believes their opponents are good and that they are telling them but many will be known on the match where it is for Azam, John Bocco said that they have great morale of emerging victorious in the game.
Speaking to the official network of the club yesterday Bocco said that until now, they are continuing to get good preparations from their coaches to the game.
"Preparations are good and exercises we have started well in this week, the players know and we are prepared to go and take three points against Simba, we will go to fight with our great goals," he said.
He said that it will start a good league until now they have won three matches and got a draw, the situation will increase their players in the game and finally they emerged victorious in that game. Magufuli is the only striker from Simba and Yanga by scoring goals, every time he will meet in different matches.
If you remove the record for scoring in the 12 goals, Bocco until now has shaken the Simba team 18 times in the matches of various competitions.
Bocco will get into the next game with great morale of developing his own record since in the first round match last season, he stopped two goals in a 2-2 draw, with the reds being scored by Ibrahim Ajib.
Speaking about that record as it has the position, Bocco said he cannot look at history but he wanted to do what he wanted to do and scored goals in the game and finally they carried out his team of collecting all three points.
