
Agriculture in the country, with the improvement of this season.
To give employment Julius Mtatiro, the Citizen on behalf of Plasmodium falciparum.
The councilor of Kitoro Busanda County in Geita province, Elias Kisimba looking at the tomatoes that happened at the Green House, where the councilor one usually comes from two and a half tons every week.
Two weeks after being sworn in, President John Magufuli left the parliamentary seat of the United Republic of Tanzania and promised to strengthen the agricultural sector in order to improve employment.
On Friday of November, last year, President Magufuli left the parliamentary seat for the first time. He explained many including the problems facing farmers, breeders and fishermen, he knows the shortage of livestock and agriculture, the problem of markets and lack of experts in the stadium.
However, the challenge of caring for the farmers of farmers, said he knows me, he explained about the shortage of warehouses of the relevant season, without forgetting the hands of thousands of livestock in various areas in the country.
Those weaknesses along with illegal fishing and small investment in the sector especially the industries' industries and regulations have been considered in the first budget of its administration.
While presenting the budget, Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Philip Mpango said the government of President Magufuli has planned to address the problems facing the citizens so as to bring new hope of life especially to the low-income citizens.
Likewise, to build a high-income economy by developing industries that will increase employment especially to the youth, that will be done by increasing productivity in agriculture that is relied upon by many citizens.
In the previous step, already Doctor Mpango has announced to stop the tax and charges stated that, "the government is prepared well to deal with those challenges."
Already 1 trillion shillings equivalent to 49 percent of all the budget if you pay the national debt has been set aside for the purchase of markets, increasing the availability of better and modern tools for agriculture, livestock and fisheries.
The estimates of that argument that was presented by Doctor Mpango, was depending on the intention of the head of the households to solve the problems of citizens and continue the industries so as to reach the middle-income income in the year 2025.
To reach there, he said that the budget aims at improving water infrastructure, electricity and transportation in order to increase the foundation of development of industries and increase production of agriculture which is important in industries.
While the government gets a good environment for doing business and investment in agriculture, there are symptoms of the aim of those goals by depending on the participation of the private sector.
Stakeholders in the agricultural stakeholders feel that the step will give aid that will enable investors to find themselves in agriculture with an eye of business especially in the establishing of the industries to increase their crops.
The chairman of the business community, Johnson Minja said if the plans to strengthen the transport and its infrastructure will not be discussed, we will be ready to invest.
He noted that due to one person, China came up by a good environment that he will not accept to use its capital to produce, instead of controlling those products from Malaria.
He emphasized that what's required is the government to ensure that the district and all provinces are heard easily, an issue that will increase the sure of markets of products that will produce and the availability of natural resources in the concerned factory.
Minister Mpango noted that the aim of the government to build a central railway to the level of local government has been able to buy three planes for the Tanzania Airports Authority (ATCL) and a new ship in the Lake Victoria and Minnesota region.
That argument was supported by the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Professor Lettice Rutashobya who says that transport infrastructure is important than the capital city of the economy of Tanzania.
He clarified that due to the high level of the country, every region does not have its own produce in business that is good for the production of products that can be needed in other parts.
By recognizing the difference of climate change in agriculture and at the concerned factory organized, he said that Airtel is only a lasting solution to it through its infrastructure and production it will be standing. "
Despite the contribution of the private sector, the government said it will complete an evaluation of industries that have been operated and to make sure that they are working.
He has set aside 218 shillings for the purpose of construction of roads especially that will open economic opportunities together with strengthening the existing construction of the central railway, a total of 249 billion shillings while 1600 Tanzanian shillings were directed to the railway fund for the purchase of classrooms and railway stations.
After inspecting taxes, fees and various fees so as to reduce or to remove those that are complaints from the citizens and investors, his emphasis has been directed to energy.
113 trillion shillings will fund the availability of reliable electricity in homes and industries and distribution will go up to the villages where many citizens live and produce through farming, livestock and fisheries.
He has called Mwengi, an entrepreneur of that hit, said electricity will benefit citizens and change their economic condition.
He clarified that the environment of their village can bring energy so as to learn, process and even increase the quality.
"The time to work will increase and be sure of selling it there will be there," he says.
If the electricity will be available, Kagera Sugar believes people will produce more different from the situation as it is now in many areas in the villages, it makes their activities before 2 o'clock at night.
He is saying, "even the news reports do not take into the television or listen to the radio."
Doctor Mpango insisted that the increase of value added tax (VAT) so as to increase the government's income, he said that if that will take place, the government will collect a total of 2686 billion shillings.
Among those areas that were done to work is the VAT tax on rice, vegetables and livestock produce not yet been buried, health insurance system and they believe that they can be addressed without forgetting the important medicine for treating water.
Despite that offense, through the amendments to that law, new charges have been started in the tourism services, products from Tanzania Mainland and conducted in Zanzibar or contrary to the tax exemptions of petrol products, there will be VAT on the fees for the bank to collect an amount possible.
Chris Matindealisema, the farmer of Morogoro said that Tanzania can get a lot of foreign money if it will improve agriculture for fruits so as to meet the internal and extra needs to be sold.
He said that it will help in the coming years, Tanzania to get fruit from outside the country.
"To strengthen that shilling is possible if many good areas are good for agriculture," he said.
