
Friday, February 6th, 2015.

To build a violation of the child of two years to three years.

The cause of a mother and her child doesn't end three years, it's love for a love and let me know more that what she knows how the child is dangerous and can't be done on the excuse of protecting the relationship of the child and a parent.

Happen if you try to marry off the child to do and it's surprised if you don't be able to understand or see what you are saying, although it is true there is a place where a child knows her, then even if the child knows, she can have any objection.

This age of two and three years have a lot of challenges because the child now starts to be free and that is the first when I know it is a person like other people together with those who does not have the ability to communicate more with other people.

It is in this age, the child understood that what he is doing has great strength because it can make sure people do not want them to know that, "the age of this age, who does not have the ability to build itself so that the child is facing.

In ensuring that the child has confident that during the time he believes that his parents, experts of growth and growth of children advise the several factors to ensure that the child is directed to have the required discipline.

Do not benefit from the expectations of?

It is important to build a clear environment for a child that makes him know what happens?
This is where it gets easily given that the child should know what they expected in all the environment.
The first step is to put a plan of home things that would be able to have the chapter of the schedule recognized by the child to know how it is supposed to sleep, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat with discipline and build the discipline of following the current procedure.

Likewise, the response of the mother to the behavior of a child is good to be understood and you will inform you, you will make sure that it will not lie without any way or not using her meaning, everything that is not supposed to be.

How did God create?

At times, we think such as parents we think that they know if we are and even if we know what they have no ability, therefore we do not want to make sure, "the real meaning of the child, may increase the possibility of violence that are not a must.

To show that you understand the feelings of her thoughts that it could be understood and therefore increasing the possibility to agree and what is expected to be a parent and the meaning of this situation is to make sure and to respect his feelings even if you don't have any problems.
Doing so, it's a child that it is not time for all his feelings will be correct and accepted by the others in the environment we learn to respect the regulations or authority about it against the feelings of his views.

Likewise, to give a child the opportunity to do the required elections to take place, to respect his feelings and cause a human being that would like to put him after writing a man and the last one is an important child to be understood.

To challenge him.

At another time the child can have an appeal to see that she does not exceed 60 weeks because it does not affect them and not to hear anything that he can do something that is not supposed to make it.
In this environment, can baptize you can be productive to the mother or the child.

Maybe he put her in the goal can help solve the problem more than three years, child as usual he does not have the ability to consider something for a long time.
He has no ability to follow up what is for more than ten minutes, therefore it is easy "to challenge him" because the meaning of making him leave the activities that will give him down.

For example, when he is pumped by a dangerous device, it is easy to finish the problems by getting off his thing that he is going to be impressed with it instead of a lot of people who want to join with the plan to play for that thing.
To challenge him is an easy way to marry off.

Not to win.

Other times it is easy for a parent to go and leave each other to see the child is competing with him and decide "to deal with him and decided to deal with him and decided to compete.

So as to avoid compete with the child, and make sure you give a penalty that will make sure that it will be wrong and even to affect the eyes of the child, it's good to pay a time to marry each child.

When you have been in a goalless draw in a period without an error in the 933s, you can be able to marry off and not knowing if there are things that can do a child and do not do everything to know what is correct.
To fight with his colleague, for example, he cannot be correct in any environment.

But there is a things that will give you a child and the only offense is that you loved for himself and you want you as a mother in this environment, to put my eyes and make sure that she wanted to help him do so as to compete.

Even so, there is a lot of times a child can do you in what you do not use your soul in line with him, but the fight can destroy the habit of using strength in solving conflicts, an issue that can have effects in the future.

By ending, sometimes it is easy to get to fail, the child can be seen since the child can be able to vote him or get married without caring about the smallness of her eyes, something to remember it is that no mother is able to claim to be successful by one hundred percent.
That is important is that when we find the children that the people who believe in them by giving them an opportunity to be free, we need to ensure that freedom is in hand in hand with the discipline and the ratio is, a parent, that allows them to be patient.

How do I communicate with?
+ 255 (0) 754 million shillings.

It has been written.
Christian Bella.
