
Kilimanjaro doesn't know what?

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The national team of Tanzania Mainland Tanzania Women's team Queens will this week put a new history in the women's soccer after winning the East and Central Africa competitions at the Honeydew estate.

The competition that took place yesterday, Uganda is the first of the women that is organized by the Council of East and Central Africa (CECAFA).
CECAFA for many years have been running the only men competition, but this year they decided to resolve the teams of women in the region of East and Central Africa.
Kilimanjaro Premium Lager's victory is a big lesson to other national teams especially those of men, including the age of 17 years of Serengeti Boys which is preparing to play in the African Cup finals at the age of that age.
The African Champions League for players who are under 17 years to take place next year in Madagascar and Serengeti Boys has gotten with one repeat game against Congo witnessed in order to qualify for the finals.
Serengeti Boys has to learn from Kilimanjaro Queens will have the true truth until it took the first crown, therefore it is an example to those men's colleagues.
The Kilimanjaro Queens will start by scoring against Burundi by 3-0 goals in a game to test the power that took place at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba town when those teams are headed to Uganda.
In that semi-finals, Kilimanjaro Marathon won 2-1 in the game that had severe sexual violence against Kenya, which has qualified for the African Champions League for women and African finals to be played later this year in Cameroon.
The England Premier League resumed in the group stages after beating Rwanda 3-2 before scoring in a draw without scoring and Ethiopia which also broke the victory of 3-2 goals from Rwanda.
Tanzania and Ethiopia have emerged with a draw and fly its currency, where Tanzania Mainland won money gambling and held the first position in Group B after the first position, Kilimanjaro Marathon that was scheduled to play with the host Uganda, which scored against 4-0 in the semi-finals.
That team in September 20 was announced as the new champions of the Fiesta Cup, after scoring against Kenya by 2-1 goals, after Kilimanjaro Queens will take the crown of East Africa Football Federation (TFF) through that team and give them a chance to pay and not to reduce them.
When it has come now, Kilimanjaro believes that they are blocking us from not knowing the time they can do well in competitions.
After winning that championship, it is the expectations of many soccer stakeholders that TFF will put priority in the women's soccer, which we had participated in the international competitions so that the best can be able to avoid discipline from the Confederation of African Football (CAF).
