The presidency are the first now.
October 26th, 2014.

The punishment for the shivered to several leaders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), the one being mentioned to vie for the presidency in the next general elections, has continued to vie for the presidency in the next general elections, has continued to vie for the presidency in the next general elections, has continued to take this journey up as to use the proposed constitution to improve more political parties, despite the swim, "for 12 months, our colleagues has been told.

That situation has come out after the previous strategies of some of the candidates to use all the loopholes to promote politics in that party, including participating in the murder of the famous people in the program.

Between the noise that ever made the major candidates vying for political parties, especially the region of Lake Region, together with the funeral of the former Tanganyika Union Union (Tanu) and the Revolutionary Party (CCM), who also served as the chairperson of the University of Shinyanga province - Undule.

The audience died on the cancer disease at the Ocean Road Hospital in Dar es Salaam city, April 13th, and buried his home in Bongwe village, outskirts of Bariadi City, Simiyu Province, April 18, this year.

The new recent report from CCM is saying that different groups of presidential candidates are being prepared for meetings with consent to prepare more for the presidential race than to market the proposed constitution.

According to those reports, these meetings are planned to involved youths of the party at the district level and provinces and sometimes, the demonstrations will be done by those candidates.

It is as a result of that situation, one of the organizers of those events from one of the presidential camp says, it will be difficult for CCM to prevent our people who will use their time to resolve the proposed constitution and also NEC has announced to support the proposed constitution. "

Speaking soon after the completion of the NEC session of his party in Dodoma last week, the secretary of ideology and propagation of the National Executive Council (NEC) of CCM, Nape Nnauye said the party has supported the proposed constitution and urged the citizens to support him.

It is as a result of that report of Nape, one of the chairperson of CCM from the Lake Region told our writer that there is no way for the party's headquarters to encourage the party members to encourage the party members and even the party members.

At the time it was revealed that the reports of some of the presidential candidates to distribute bribes to the NEC delegates last week in Dodoma town, through their aides are one relationship with some of the leaders of the ministry in the country.

In those accusations, one female minister was accused to help one of the leaders that have ever been in power during the first phase of the government of President Jakaya Kikwete and another one who has been mentioned is one of the biggest leaders in the local government Community (T).

The leaders of CCM who were known as he was questioned and finally given a warning to the presidential campaigns earlier on the danger of dividing the party, Edward Lowassa, Bernard Membe, Stephen Wasira, January Makamba, Frederick Sumaye and William Ngeleja, said CCM had banned the leaders together with their aides to hold campaigns for 12 months up to February next year.

Apart from those, others mentioned to be able to vie for presidency although they did not be given a warning to Doctor John Magufuli, Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal and two-fielder.

Ukawa is going on.
At the time it continues on the side of CCM and their candidates, the ones mentioned to be able to vie for the party flag, the parties of CHADEMA, NCCR - Revolutions and the Citizens Party (CUF) have continued with their strategy of stopping the candidates for different positions in the coordination of supporting them.

Already the Secretary General of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA), Doctor Wilfredy has said that he has been made the reputation of those parties through their union being introduced by the name of the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa), will follow the candidates on the system of supporting those parties, therefore he will have more attraction than her fellow candidates for example, in contesting for a parliamentary seat.

But as a situation if so, it's not there that the possibility of the breathing system in Ukawa through the parliamentary candidates, especially in the provinces where the party or certain candidates of the party, through their personal interests, they have already using a lot of resources to build social media networks.
