
Serengeti Boys in the past.

It has been written by.

I was published in 1st October, 2016.

Tomorrow it is the semi-finals between Tanzania and AC Leopards Soccer Team witnessed when their boys team under the age of 17 years are estimated to contest for the tickets to qualify for the African Cup finals to youths of that age.

Those finals are expected to take place in Madagascar in the year and Tanzania is vying for the first time since they get a lesson to the players that qualified for the 2005-Gambia Union.
Confederation of African Football (CAF), got a step of removing Tanzania from that tournament after it was revealed to use a player aged age.
Tomorrow, Tanzania, through his youth squad, Serengeti Boys is vying for that position, being safe without any activity because of having players who died as years ago.
Serengeti Boys took place at the Majimaji Soccer Team witnessed being ahead by 3-2 goals that came out for the first match that was played in Dar es Salaam two weeks ago.
Therefore, those results are forced to protect those youths of coach, Bakari Shime has urged other goals to be safe and eventually give other goals to be safe and eventually, Tanzania is waiting for the desire to be safe and eventually the team is behind the government, sports stakeholders and all citizens in general.
That is an event for all Tanzanians and we have said that we are behind you in the state and property in the match, we believe that the preparations have you made under your coaches, you are increasing well and there is no doubt the things will be good tomorrow.
As he has talked about the team's coach, Shime has said his squad is well and he believes that they will get good results tomorrow, and we are not worried about that, due to the ball that was played by those youths in the previous matches.
We believe that until when they arrived at the youths they have got enough experience in the international tournament and there is no one that will make us again.
The hosts Congo are believed to have conflicts of living here and there which had become difficult time to time, we have no doubt the technical bench will not talk as required by those youths who don't know or not any situation that makes them feel there.
All the best, Serengeti Boys "all Tanzanians, as we wait for the main desire to be given.
