
A election of the leaders of the Eid celebrations.
And learn from poverty.
The general meeting of the last year of the breast cancer factory, Isha Mashauzi Classic yesterday was one after beating them during elections of the director.
Farmers who had criticized Moscow Government, officers of the Majani ya Chai Secondary (NBL) by electing one of the sponsors who will take the position of the director currently, Peter LNg'amilo, who was banned in that election.
Police found himself in a result of giving him a chief supervisor of the elections that he has stopped from the farmers that stopped him and try to win against his opponent of Ng'ombeni, Mister Djinnit.
Those farmers claimed that the anti-communicable diseases are blocking the opportunity to elect the director in their democratic system and they are saying they are believed to be Mister Mayingu, who was given one appointment directly.
However, the electronic system in that area has already removed the claims by saying Ng'ombeni, who represented the area of Gogo, which was banned after violating the rules of appointment.
He said Mister Mwikabe has been certified by the new director, but he added that Ng'ombeni, she is free to arrive in court to oppose that appointment.
But one of the members of the board of that company, Mister Kabendera Gmwaijonga has said that he would like an offense of farmers to run that election, to get to the previous day.
"As a member of the board I have an accident and interests of the farmers and if there is no errors in the appointment, it has been released before the general meeting of the year (FGM)," he said.
The farmer, Samuel Mugenda said farmers will go to court to oppose that election being mentioned as fake.
Later, Charles Kamau was elected as the chairman of that factory and took the position of Geoffrey Kibacha who retired.
Previously, the meeting was to be informed that the inflation rate from the factory was reduced up to 742 million shillings last year from 1 billion shillings last year.
That chairman explained that the drop in that income by 2489 percent resulted from the increase of breast cancer in the international market from the production of production like China, India, the Lanham act and Kenya.
