Supermarket in Dar es Salaaam.
January 26, 2015.

A resident shop (DCI) that is known by the name'ori, Dar es Salaam that is owned by a citizen of China, has set up a environment of making war against skin disorders from getting inside and buying products, Almighty God has noted.
The shop is in the Indian Ocean, Mikocheni at least 56 number 56 by the writer of this news is among the victims of discrimination which are of its kind in the country.
This newspaper was in a report from its media sources about that shop and the day before yesterday on Monday, journalists went itself to see what is done in that area.
For outside, that shop has no signs that causes those activities because it has been surrounded by a lot of houses as a normal state of people living, but a person when he comes inside, he will see that shop which they sell food and cold drinks like being used by people with the origin of China.
Previously, one of the people that have ever been affected by that incident of discrimination left the newspaper on how he had been stopped from inside that shop for explanations that it was found.
In order for your car to be allowed to enter inside that shop, it is a must that it has been a person with the Tanzanian origin who can be allowed, "said one of the victims of the discrimination which however did not want to be told his name.
Two journalists of Mke Mwema came out to the area by using a car accident with the company's logo, but when they arrived at the field they were requested by the defender of KMK company to wait and ask him inside if they are allowed to enter.
However, before leaving inside, the defender asked what kind of products that need to be bought by those journalists, they said that they need for Chinese nationals popular by the name Kocha, Charles.
That defender, maybe by fear that the involved are journalists, he gave permission to a car to get after talking to "couples, who were three Chinese nationals and one man who was receiving payments.
Just after the journalists getting inside that shop, one of the Chinese started talking to speak, showing off the action of seeing the guests who are required to do at his work area.
Flaviana Matata, who was followed by using Chinese language and when this news reporter when he interviewed the man, is why his fellow journalist is why his fellow person did not answer more than being silent.
After finishing the purchase, our journalists went to make payments but by asking the first why the shop is unable to serve black people.
"Sihana mentioned English, and I am not the manager here and he is far and I cannot speak on behalf of the involved, but I don't know if we are my brothers why we should do that," said the male child.
The efforts of wanting to speak with the person who was found did not succeed because the first time he had not want to meet someone she has, and he had leaving every time when he knew the signs of wanting to deal with our journalists.
All those involved were seen to have 50 years old which is believed to be between 30 to 40 years.
Our journalists left inside that shop but when they were outside, they were outside to investigate the kind of customers that are allowed, it was noted that the whites who had Chinese nationals were allowed to enter without being asked from any questions and security guards.
One of the security guards that have ever protect the shop, left the newspaper that it has been normal for the owners to give restrictions to black people because they have not been put up until now.
"We have been given instructions that when a black person you are asked, at the platform what we told there is no black person only, it is allowed to get inside," said the defender who was born to protect it.
The defender told this newspaper that maybe the owners are worried that black people can steal things but when he was asked by our journalists because it is only black people who are seen to have a possibility of stealing from that shop and not people with another origin, the former defender did not have answers.
