
There is a black bikini.
APR of 23rd, 2014.

In large numbers "a black suit" has not put up about where he is a suspect in the case to drive out 130 plots including Twiga four, Kamnada Ahmed (32), who is the number one suspect in the case that was opened by the United Republic of Kilimanjaro.
The case against that suspect and three others who are expected to be mentioned on April 17 this year in Moshi town, and the suspect did not happen again in the court that was buried and the third time, a situation that allows him to die.
Already the resident magistrate has given out the arrest of that suspect anywhere where he is after not seen in doubt for more than three times without any report.
But the report of Mwema should collect them from different sources are claimed that the suspect was unknown, and the police force who have been given documents to arrest him have not succeeded.
Kamnada who is a citizen of Pakistan to three other suspects who are faced with a case of being involved in controlling the animals from the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court in Kilimanjaro Province and the case was going on.
The animals are alleged to be suffering from DOM in Qatar, November 26th of 2010 by using the plane of Qatar and Air Force which is owned by the army of that country that had been using the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA).
That suspect, together with his colleagues were out on bail after being blocked on a bail and a resident magistrate of Kilimanjaro Region but the High Court of Moshi got a bond after his lawyers got an appeal.
However, when the resident magistrate's listening to the case he mentioned again to court on April 17, will they be seen in court if it was for his lawyer, Edmund Ngemela.
That condition as a result of the court has added doubt in the future of that case, due to the foundation of being allowed, they will be important to the prosecutors of the government.
Resident magistrate, has postponed that case up to May 6th this year where it will continue being heard again through the state of the Republic to bring his witnesses.
Speaking during a short time after that case, the former president of business and the suspect, Hawa Mangele says that he does not have any communication with that suspect.
I don't have any other information, about the suspect that you gave me his information and we do not have communication for a long time, "explained Manguanjuki.
In accordance with the previous terms, according to the records of the high court in Moshi region, Judge Martha Mosses Mlata, gave six terms of suspects to get bond and explanation that the economic growth law was read together with the criminal offenses act (CPA), it wants small traders to seek refuge in court for the value of the disease.
In that case, the ones that were accused of transporting wildlife in the value of 200 shillings, 572,500 that are half of that money is shillings 85, 286, 250 marks for the same time will be shillings 14, 21 375 and 75 million shillings.
It is alleged that Kamoga gave that amount of money to get a bond and therefore the previous bond of the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court is not legal.
According to Judge Bomani, apart from paying cash money in court, the second condition made them to have two sponsors who are the residents of Kilimanjaro Province who will sign a certificate of bond of shillings 14, 214, 375.
In the third case, Judge Mzindu said that the first woman will be the first, Kamnada Ahmed who is a citizen of Pakistan, handing over their documents to cater for the police station in Moshi town.
The fourth condition is raising the citizens to intervene in witnesses and investigation of the case, while the fifth thing is to be transported outside Arusha Province and Kilimanjaro without a permit, from the registrar of the High Court in Moshi and also not involved the wildlife business in the whole period of case.
The sixth condition of preventing them is one or the whole one or in general they are involved in the wildlife business, it will go hand in hand with preventing all of them not visiting any national park in the country.
According to Judge Chande has said that the last situation is the need to ensure they are going to court in the day, on the date and the long time will be taken by the court.
Two weeks ago the police commander of Kilimanjaro Province, told Besson that they have received documents of the court to arrest him in the accused but they still have not received the right information of the place where he is.
"It is true we have received documents of arrest him from the court and the work of looking for him but up to now, we have not received the right information about where he is a suspect," he was quoted saying the police commander of Kilimanjaro Robert Boaz.
An event is being transported to the animals that was blocked for the first time with the newspaper of Mwema, until they were added inside the parliament and it is one of the big scandal to have been facing the wildlife sector and the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism.
Following the scandal, several officers in the wildlife department were sacked including the former managing director Gavin Van Gaal.
