
Museveni, Kagame, Kenyatta to help the earthquake.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published today, 18th September 2016.

President John Magufuli has received a report of the disaster that was caused by the earthquake which occurred in Kagera province and neighboring provinces of Mwanza, Geita and Kigoma from the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa.

Speaking after receiving that report of disasters and contributions for the victims of the disaster, President Magufuli thanked all the leaders that made them to help the victims, now the presidents of the countries of the East African Community (EAC), the president of Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta, and the president of Rwanda, Paul Kagame, that they have given their condolences and already they have made their donations.
The State House report that was released in Dar es Salaam yesterday said together with receiving that report, President Magufuli received a donation of 100 million American dollars equivalent to approximately 437 shillings from President Museveni.
Also President Magufuli received the report of the contribution of iron sheets and mattresses worth 115 million shillings from President Kenyatta to help them the victims of the earthquake in Kagera province.
He also thanked various countries, organizations, business people, public servants and private individuals that contributed and said that the contributions have a great importance in dealing with the effects of this disaster.
He urged religious leaders and all those who were touched by the disaster in order to provide assistance to the victims through the office of the prime minister and the office of the Prime Minister and the Office of the Provincial Commissioner of Kagera, while confirming him to address the state of dollars of people who want to use the disaster.
He noted that the government will ensure that it has modified the infrastructure that were destroyed including schools, health centers, roads and other community services and also wanted the citizens who were faced with the effects of the earthquake especially houses that were destroyed, so as to organize their houses because the government will not help build all houses that are destroyed.
In addition, President Magufuli requested people who want to use that disaster in spreading themselves and hatred against the government and he noted that until now there is no technology that affects the earthquake and that the earthquake did not be brought by the government.
He said even big nations with great development in economy and technology are faced with an earthquake which caused the deaths of a large number of citizens and the huge destruction of property.
"I was trying to look for example the country like China in the year 2014 and 617 lost their lives, in the year 2013 lost approximately 6 people, in the year 2016 lost six people, after two days, the earthquake happened again and was killed by 35 people.
In the year 2012, the three people of the year 2011 and 15,94 people in the year 1999 has killed 11 people, the year 2007 was killed by 11 people, in 1923, the year 2004 to approximately 2800 people and that is Japan, "insisted President Magufuli.
In his report, the prime minister, Kassim Majaliwa said the earthquake has caused the deaths of 17 people, 2,089 houses have collapsed, 2,081 houses have graduated in a dangerous environment and 471 houses have got a small destruction, while 12615 having various donations.
He added that the government has taken various steps including taking food, medical services and emergency services to the victims and also they should use the collection of contributions from different places where up to now, an amount of 36 billion shillings have been obtained.
Mwinyi contributes a total of millions of Dar in another event, yesterday the retired president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi led a courtesy walk to raise funds to help the victims of the earthquake which a total of 500 million shillings were collected.
Together with giving their condolences to the victims and explained the importance of citizens to contribute to the victims, retired President Mwinyi spoke about his health while explaining the secret that made him to continue having the strength of participating in various social issues, more than the youth.
The tour of five kilometers, that was organized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, and held in Dar es Salaam city started at the hall of the Police Officers' hall in Oysterbay.
In a surprising situation, Mwinyi was able to show a huge flared at the time of those commemorations, they registered themselves following some of the participants, others unable to end, while the retired president uses four hours in the morning and end 210 o'clock in the morning.
In the tour of non-governmental institutions of Australia, contributed 200 million shillings, the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) shillings 10 million, the Workers Compensation Fund of PPF (50 million shillings) of CRDB Bank, 50 million shillings and Tanzania Social Security Fund (ZTC) of seven million shillings.
The others mentioned are entrepreneurs who do business in the popular area of Kariakoo of 500,000 shillings, students that studied in Kagera Secondary School in Kagera province which has been destroyed badly by the earthquake by being beaten five million shillings by the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Dar es Salaam, 5 million shillings.
Other leaders were present and explained to support Mwinyi for each one to give two million shillings, he is the deputy minister of law and constitution, Amon Mpanju and the Deputy Minister in the Office of the Prime Minister, the People with Disabilities Doctor Abdallah Possi and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Doctor Susan Kolimba and others who together with the total of 56 million shillings were found.
Mwinyi said the walk that show is togetherness and the political unity from how people came to, and said that the disaster is wrong for all.
He congratulated the government for the efforts that it took that by providing quick donations to all who were affected with the aim of promoting solidarity and cooperating with the government to look for solutions to other challenges facing the citizens in various parts of the country.
Speaking about his health, Mwinyi (91) told people who came out for that event when he started talking about his health saying he still had the ability to study any way from the sun again without using glasses.
"I would like to understand that I am a whole, I am happy here, I am happy about my speech in the newspaper without using glasses, this is a confirmation that my health is good," he said.
