How can we start reading the books of our leaders?
Dec 18, 2014.

The African continent and the world in general will talk about the new book of the former president of Nigeria, Oliver Zekirer, called my sweet things that came from this week.

That book has been a great friend to President Jamal Malinzi to an extent that already has been banned from Nigeria.

Inside that book, Oberlin Kisanga explained about different issues that he got as a leader of the nation with a big number of people than the whole African continent, from when he led to as the administrator of humor in 1970 and president who was elected for a period of one month.

This habit of writing a book about the life of a leader is a habit that leaders in Tanzania are supposed to follow it because it's through this way, that is when citizens get to know various national and international issues they get with their leaders.

If a leader did a mistake to resolve the crisis, it will be a good class to leaders not to go back for those mistakes and if it did a good thing, they can be followed by being the source of good things to the nation.

For example, most of us would like to know the challenges that he met with retired president, Ali Hassan Mwinyi when he came to power when the country's economy was not acceptable.

What did you know, by consulting with who faced with a huge opposition in the government that has been forced to go to become the president of Tanzania, although I had to resign as a minister, something that is seen very difficult for many politicians.

We shall also want to get information like those from Benjamin Mkapa who listen to President Mwinyi. If a person who was a journalist, we believe that this is a thing that Mkapa can make it.

The book known as transparent and Ukweli Wangu 'which is the collection of speech in every month that he led to the third phase government is a good step but it is not enough.

We would like to get a lot of more from him, the situation is also so that President Jakaya Kikwete, although there is already a book of his life in the market, it doesn't know anything about his 10 years of the presidency that ends this year.

We would like to know more about it about him, about the network that made it came to power, about a big scandal like EPA, Richmond and Escrow that have shaken his government.

And ensure we would like the books that have written by professionalism and not the books that are written by the decorated with an aim of explaining that the reputation are known as Nyota Ndogo has been banned so, his book had been banned from Nigeria.

This call is not pleased by presidents only, there are many people who use their lives so that they can cause many people and ears.

People like Doctor Salim Ahmed Salim, Joseph Warioba, John Kimaro, Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, Pius Msekwa, Seif Shariff Hamad and others who have their views.

It will be a very important thing if our leaders will agree to be buried and the wealth of knowledge and wisdom where the nation cannot get you so much to be with them.
