A car vehicle.
Four people have confirmed the world and ten others have been injured after the ten thousand building which have been built at the scene area of the city which have been built today at eight o'clock in the morning.
And then I was determined at the scene of the scene, it has said out of thirty thousand people were in that area when the scene takes place among them including small children who were outside the Shia Mosque that is in the neighborhood with the building that was previously built by a new contract of the construction.
In that area, captain, don't read various reports of saving while continuing with the exercise of looking for people who put in the referendum for the building a exercise which later involved several soldiers of the army's army to enable him to be taken to that area so as to increase.
Various leaders including President Jakaya Kikwete.
By the Vice President Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal arrived at the scene area where they were given information by the head of Dar es Salaam province Mister Said Meck Sadick and regional police commander of Dar es Salaam city.
There is no one.
Other leaders who benefited from that area include the national chairperson of the era of Ciara and nominated members of parliament Mister James Mbatia, who together with him Meck Sadiki and commander Kova had this one.
Doctor Fauzia Kullane.
If there is there?
When they are still all, together if there are men who are under it since they have been customers!
There is also but.
It's when it's like this column, I will see you even those who have a good phone to remove your phones in what I want to do if the Tanzanians do not lie?
Because it has been doing if I was not like one thing and it should be cursed by saying he was chased away why he has also been expelled because he was not involved in a human life.
It has also been said.
A very big value to now the squads of rescue is going on with the efforts of growth of people who wanted them to leave the place where several people should not been reported.
How would I think of captain who have.
Messi was found.
