
Be using fake phones, we do not lie!
The human being we have a habit of starting with heavy problems where the wall is a few can be able to withstand the difficult decisions, despite getting married, this is in all sectors of life or business when it comes to a loss or in social issues like a disaster.
Most of those events, putting up suddenly in the headlines, it starts the procedures if the direction of business loss, but later am wondering more.
This is why this will be a pain of switching off mobile phones next week, most of the phones that will use their phones will use them to losses when some of the business people who were using fake phones will go up there.
The employees of those shops and they don't give their balances for a very long time, it's a funeral that enables people to get money easily and illegal ways to prevent the importation of fake phones.
Tears of citizens who will be affected by the scandal, putting up with those who know, it is the results of the relevant authorities including the rights of consumers not to provide correct education for good electronic products and ways of preventing themselves.
A lot of educating about counterfeit drugs are based on many normal products like iron sheets which have forgotten that the phone is among the electronic equipment used by more than 30 million users.
But many of them witnessed the exercise which will be brought by the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), there is a group that will help business people who use the law, who in this period they were not required as required because of fake phones, they will start soon.
The most common phones that were previously used to use the market because prices were listed among fake phones with the internet and the air crafts can be seen in value.
Most of the business people who are not faithful who have already received prices because the real needs are that there are citizens who do not understand the phone that they don't have the phones that they want to make social media like WhatsApp, and Facebook while they have no ability to the internet.
At that time the government will be able to fight with fear of the decision including politicians and the activists, thus the success of controlling the price of those equipment, she didn't use it.
This sequence of those events is like you wait, let's wait, let's wait and leave on June 16, technology is a challenge that you have been recognized because its politics is dangerous than even the sugar and blood poured.
First, TCRA, mobile phone companies, communication experts, users of phone and technicians continue to educate them on how to know fake phones and how to return the serial numbers of the electronic fiscal device (IMEI).
Also, it is clear that the levels of the phone prices of all types of phones that have the ability to make and send a SMS because of modern phones (IMEI) that can explain how it has done how many kilometers today.
Citizens should tell you the truth that mobile phones can connect with WhatsApp, Twitter or Facebook, what is possible for maybe Facebook has a message to those who use that network and join that service.
Secondly after the firefighting exercise, we believe that the control of control and regulations of defending customers will have the strength of this period more than the electronic products because there we will explain these fake phones to follow the trend of electronic equipment, who have started to enter into the end of the year 2006.
Many of them were told by a big phone from the Asian continent, which were doing music well and taking pictures with a high level, the business logos of those products were not known as well as required to change every day and another even having a abusive language in Swahili language.
Therefore, for now legal action will be taken to increase the borders with the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), the department of Immigration, police and Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) to ensure it did not affect the fake products in the market and caused the cries like what we want.
TCRA has blamed the business people that do not have licenses for distribution and selling of those phones if the law works, there are several shops in the market and they don't have licenses in the world without a phone, it is clear that in the world of communication to sit on one week without a phone is the same.
We shouldn't jump and we need to sit together with our poverty, we have bought your best phones with the ability to make and send a short message that will be sold at an average of 20,000 shillings for now in a big part in the country.
When we go together to implement our responsibility, the funeral of switching off fake phones will not be big and you will end up, you will look for joy and we will forget where we are having a desire to use the real products.
