Why CCM is unacceptable, as it is not the ruling party?
December 17, 2014.

Among the words that was quoted by people especially inside CCM about Mwalimu Nyerere, it is his statement that "without CCM availability of our country will be safe."

I personally did not have to be given great weight to that amount, because many times I have taken as political words only.

However, events of the constitutional parliament has reminded to the government that CCM is not only has lost a lot of challenges that they missed to have and now it has been as a foolish thing that existed.
The response of the leadership of CCM regarding the challenges of the constitutional parliament, the issue that made him know if CCM is seen as the ruling party or it depends on whether the party does not lie!
A political party is organizing a elections that has been given power (in the picture) to do some issues and one of the biggest thing is to rule.
This is the reason for parties to vie for a chance to lead, that is in getting an opportunity to fulfill its political plans.
CCM made the process of a new constitution and has made it so as to meet its needs and even when we look at how many issues have been done in the constitutional parliament there is a must that we interview him as CCM is still a must for you, control and legal measures have ever been with them.
We have seen this in the issue of deciding to vote on the process of passing various sections of the draft constitution so that the constitution can move forward by the citizens so that they will vote in the opinion polls easily.

Today, some of us came out, there was no difficulty when they vote to vote and decide this issue and any decision to help them?
His results have come up with one of the most important policies of each member to decide the vote of how he is open or not in the same thing.
But this is just one thing, another thing is how CCM and all of them seems to be unable to show the vision of a leader in the constitutional parliament!
The issues that are given by some of its cadres have a lot of joy and we have to ask if these are true they have CCM or not!
The request of the issue of certificate of union certificates and even the argument of the legality of the union has been advised on how the speech by President Kikwete is supposed to be identified.
The outcome we have been done by some people applauding the Judge Joseph Warioba and the chairperson of the commission on constitutional changes - an issue that is surprising if they had a meaning.
After listening to me, I would like to see two things though they can be among other things and I believe that CCM has failed to have good leadership of tribalism (birthday).
I don't know if there is any person inside CCM who can be seen if he is a leader of human beings like those who are doing them to the opposition.
Today, and at all the right, we see the opposition they received their policies well and their thoughts have touched me the thoughts of citizens on issues, even if those issues are being viewed as well, they have a lot of things!
But the normal Tanzanian can be impressed by the real way being done by opposition leaders than that of CCM.
However, President Kikwete when he was given a chance to speak he was surprised, he gives him, giving him a good stand for what he knows or believe!
But the second issue that I believe is very true and for a time you will decide his truth is that CCM did not have a plan of wanting Tanzania to get a new constitution before 2015.
This has come up especially after losing close to the whole month, to discuss the rules and now last week they have put up on the first chapter and the sixth position of the draft.

And because the leadership of parliament has been unable to ask for a long time to be included, it will not be clear that this work will not affect inside the allocated time.
This is true because of the arrival of the budget of budget and later this year the local government elections are not happy if you can be done under the new constitution.
And if this process will be postponed if it is expected to end the possibility of finishing his new constitution this year and to do opinion polls for sure it's not there completely.
And there we have not done if citizens will follow the third term government with the arrival of Tanganyika Government, and its constitution and elections for its leaders will be made when they see.
