
Only laws are not allowed to give birth to students.
The Parliament of the United Republic of the United this week has banned the Marist's bill for the 2016 of 2016 that has been filled with several issues that are required to be improved.
Among those issues is a punishment for 30 years if someone goes against him or giving them a student of primary or secondary schools.
During the time of discussing the recommendations of that law, the members of parliament wanted a huge punishment for the laws proposed by the increase in events of students being given pregnancy and others set up studies so as to be given.
Some of those involved will be awarded money for a fine and the others want to be demolished because some people used to be proven to be used to life in prison and not there was a pain of being beaten.
We thank the parliament for passing the law which basically the aim is to ensure that female students use their rights to get education as it is for the male students and enable them to participate fully in improving their lives and the nation as a whole.
This is not the first time for our representatives to make law to make law to pass a stern legal action against those of gender violence and children.
As it was presented, that bill is the amendments to the law that goes on's child, but the success of that law is not great to an extent that the government has changed the need to make corrections so as to reduce those events.
And even these changes will not contribute to the success of this law, the government can present another bill for amendments to those laws and it wants them to have more strength.
The debate by the members of parliament at the time of passing the law, it shows that they would like the great punishment for people who are found guilty of those acts because they see them.
This means that its meaning is that those acts of violence, preventing the rights of children, humiliation and violation of human rights that are not supposed to be shown by the law alone.
We are happy to be law alone, it will be able to control or eliminate the evil actions, but a big strategy will involve different stakeholders to ensure that the nation can benefit from these actions.
Some of the ones that do those acts or is being done well as there is no problem because if you feel it is correct.
Others who do those acts are those who do faith in witchcraft, who are supposed to be careful, due to the growth of the development in their areas.
Therefore, those different history is an important thing that the only law will not be able to remove those acts, but the other strategies that will involve the community to think about ways of ending the violation of the rights of children.
The issue of education to the community especially those who are in areas where those events have been mentioning, it is very important for those who do not participate in those actions, it does not need education so that there is a problem.
It is not true that the Parliament has banned the amendments to the law, but in those areas there are no laws that there is a law like that, do not see that there is a law like that, do not support the child for giving them or due to giving him a mistake.
Therefore, there is the first job of giving education on issues of children, violence and educate about the law.
And this work is a must they be made by all stakeholders, each one for his position in order to eradicate violence in female students.
