
The condition of drugs in Africa.
The United Nations Information Center in Dar es Salaam, March 9 this year, issued a international board report to control drugs in Africa and Tanzania for the year 2015.
That report is saying that there has been an increase in transportation of heroin in the East African countries that had Afghanistan.
Moreover, South African countries have been discovered to be the source of drugs in the community of 'shivered.
To come out in the new drugs of drugs has increased the other important.
Africa as a big source that happened in accordance with the report that the African continent has continued to be used to use drugs.
South Africa was used for a time to pass the receiver on the newspapers in Europe while South Africa continued to be the main source of drugs that came in the continent.
Likewise the East African countries have been the center of transporting drugs that happened in Europe and this situation is taken to Europe.
The business people of drugs donated people with low-income people in order to increase the markets of those drugs in the country that the business came through including Benin and Namibia.
Although there have been an effort done by the Southern African countries through the East African Community through the Community of West Africa - EPOS), in general, business of drugs and the use of these drugs in this area have increased.
The law, policies and action taken in the African continent has taken different steps to deal with the drug problem in the year 2015 the African Union organized and discussing the strategy of the control of drugs that are needed more on the use of drugs for the users of those drugs.
Moreover, EPOS, prepared the labor force dealing with trade and international standards in the West African countries.
The countries of Ghana, Egypt, and Nigeria were strengthened the law and their ability to deal with drugs in the South African continent having a big challenge in many African countries like Tanzania, Nigeria, and Ghana. Nigeria had a big challenge in many African countries including Ghana, which was arrested while being taken to China, the United Arab Emirates and England.
Morocco is the leading country in the world with production of marijuana since it is buried and caused the drugs in the European continent.
70 tons of marijuana that was been buried in Morocco in the year 2014 and the other countries that was reported in which was buried is Algeria, Tunisia and Egypt which in the year 2014 has destroyed more than 345 hectares of marijuana and 3,307 hectares of plants which are used to produce bribery.
The transportation of the receiver on the receiver on the western part of the African continent from South Africa, is still a big problem in the countries that have been used by business people using the drugs and other countries used as the center of transporting those drugs.
The transportation of the receiver on the East African Community revealed that in 2014, although a little amount of medicine was arrested compared to the amount that was arrested in 2010 and 2012 due to this medicine that has been built in the year 2010 and 2012 due to this drugs having a high cost, it is owned by the markets in Europe and a little amount.
Transportation of heroin in the East Africa is seen to be fast in the year 2014, this situation is participating with the arrest of a big amount of heroin in the countries of Kenya and Tanzania.
A total of 387 kilograms of heroin in the port of Mombasa), 3,3200 bed sheets that were mixed with heroin in the 400 meters for diesel in Kenya the year 2014.
A total of 321 kilograms of heroin in the country in the year 2014 has been reported that drug trafficking are usually made by using the big cargo that fell in the main market and to reduce goods with these drugs at the neighboring countries, Holland, England and America.
The production of an inammation of the production of an inexhauste production in the African continent and the countries that was reported to produce this medicine is in South Africa, Japan, Mali and Kenya. This medicine was produced for markets that are present in South Africa, Japan, Malaysia and Thailand.
Chemicals are participating in the African countries have been in a high risk of passing the smuggling of chemicals and participating in the purpose of making drugs.
Chemicals are participating in the major mistakes that were stolen, the electronic fiscal device that is used in making drug abuse is the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe.
The control of drugs in Nigeria has put off fake drugs at the same level and believe in the list of drugs that is stable nationally, the countries of Egypt, Ghana, and they decided to control it at least.
