
Zimbabwe should show the intention of investing in Dodoma.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

Together with investors from here in the country, showing an intention to invest in Dodoma province, cement and tires, investors from Zimbabwe want to invest in infrastructure for putting electricity and water.

The senior information officer of the Capital Development Authority (CDA), Abeid Msangi said that yesterday when speaking to the press here in the city.
That officer said that since the fifth term government started doing the implementation of moving to Dodoma, the speed of investment and investors in the province has increased.
Explaining further, he said that the foreign investors have requested to be given an opportunity to invest in a tires and another factory of cement.
"If things will go well in the near future days in Dodoma, it will have enough sugar industries," said Msangi in their talks, he said that the province has enough resources of minerals of cement in Itigi and Mpwapwa provinces which is the cause of cement.
"You know that there is a factory of cement in Mbeya every time they are coming here to buy a hole in Itigi and Mpumalanga area," said Msangi.
Speaking about the investors from Zimbabwe, Msangi said that those investors want to invest in giving them the citizens of Dodoma, better infrastructure, water and electricity.
He said those investors have said that it's early, to mention them, they want to invest in services and they do not need land in that area more than a working area and has been completed later.
Moreover, he said that the authority continues to look for an investor for the purpose of improving various offices so that it can be able to give an opportunity to various offices, he said that the National Social Security Council (AU), have requested the area to build its offices.
In the recent days, the Executive Director of CDA, Pancras Ndejembi said that they have completed the land testing exercise because of the ministry and land offices and that they completed the regular data before launching the public.
