In our article of discussion.
Today you will be me a journalist, where it is to speak with the youth.
About the topic?
Together with other effects of drugs.
Those who use drugs are in danger of getting the infection of AIDS.
But on that way it is continuing to be used every day.
?
The youths that use drugs.
What is the danger of that way as it is why?
If you do not know what should be done in our participants is a high level.
Suzan Ngowi.
John war.
And the health center what we think about to do a youth until he is deciding to use drugs.
Reason and it does not make a youth that he started using drug abuse is lack of employment as a person that led them, there's no one to work hard for our phone to be in a ten years when a person is supposed to do where I will get that day.
The sacrifice of ideas when you're near the village, I don't like a youth, I will just stumble and use drugs and other dangerous things and also the problems of the family you see your home.
.
To know if she is small, who is in home in the home of home, mother and her mother and her mother.
Therefore, it continues to buy fake.
He can be asked himself, what is when it comes to I am using the heart of writing drug abuse or even other groups, you find you.
You involved with friends who do not have good advice to youths we are supposed to do good friends that have good advice on life that will be treated here in doing good things in Asia, as a youth do not know what reasons are making youths.
Who represents the use of drug abuse, Meena.
There are many drugs, there are many reasons but one is.
They are youths themselves not.
I have been saying, we need to recognize the preparations for the youth?
Where we're going to where we have from marriage is not the nation of tomorrow.
It's not why we are required tomorrow to be religious leaders.
But you want to do a youth like a youth.
It is hard to change, or be easily read by your old man, we are unable to get into anything related to you.
We are following different groups.
Therefore, I am happy about one important thing that we are not knowing.
Another thing that they will enter the drug abuse, there is an issue of starting different groups.
And the chest are open different units.
They are with us.
There is a carcass in the youth to know that this is an issue.
It is dangerous to the state and development, he made it to the way.
The spread of a human life, we think about the effects that you get the user of drugs the user get the first effects as if you can bring development to the community and nation because I can bring development to the community and nation because I can I said that the effects which they get the user.
He is ready to have the ability again and that he does not have a national contribution to the family or family.
.
To do the activities that result in development, we want to get the user of drug abuse by me when I see the use of drug abuse is same as losing respect to the community that surrounds them when they start using drugs that does not affect so.
Meaning, it is a topic that the user has a great reason to the community, it does not think the number of people who are there like the youths there are many effects which we have witnessed, there are many effects which we have reached, in Dar es Salaam.
And we say we will continue to explain one one until his morning, maybe the foundation of the area can be said here is that the country is.
On Sunday, you missed him and if I don't get married, the country's economy is controlled because of many to build the nation.
Increasing the income of the nation, it is now a young man already has already affected those affected, where we had already lost once you had already lost.
Mchaga can give me another.
Which is everything?
Something already even if it is the user.
Day.
More that benefit from died.
Will this will be heard, if there was a great loan, then it is good.
It has a modem.
Another thing that the nation is growing very fast, getting married because of the youths using drugs, it is that youths should have no need.
When the youth gets a direction to youths whom they cannot get honor to the youth, even when it is even so that you can get any respect to our community because it's a load when we do so as to deal with your family as well as our brothers together with our family as well as the whole community in general.
Let me know that he has the opportunity to look for people and he is supposed to do it.
Taking them down.
I know you for anyone, the young man entertaining those drugs contributing to his life and to look for you.
.
Things like that.
And also, as a youth that has completed that school, there is no need for employment, there's no capital, there's no capital that you are required, you should not allow you to fulfill those groups!
Look for?
We are all of us if you have no good activities to do such as work, then we do not even ask ourselves who do not go into different issues, we need the leadership of our country to be careful, we need the leaders of our country to be careful with the importation of drugs.
Every day we are saying that every day we go to news every day, our brothers that we want to take action is still there and the effects to bring and another thing, therefore many groups should give birth to the users of drugs.
These groups cannot be.
We should be stable in helping people.
They use a presentation to ask ourselves about an example of my child.
My uncle Arnold Pistorius.
He was using drugs, later he went to the group of preventing the effects and we gave them.
Finally, after finishing a two months, the use has repeated if those things should be able to change different things because the youth should be able to sit down with drug abuse we have never seen the user's strategy to protect people without being arrested.
What is when you were arrested because it must be great, that the government has the anger of God, Alex Witselfor for him.
Do your work it will be able to make youths from a step, that is if the bus will be defeated and they have been defeated.
The effects of drugs, I do not know people to know that drugs and such as it is not enough to make sure that those youths do not see them because one of the ways that makes people want to live.
That or not having a thing of doing God, what should be done by three should be?
Because of the country.
There is there people professionally as fighting.
.
They are urging them to pay every time we are doing so that we can be able to inform them that you can be able to help them as well as to make sure that you are able to help them get close to the youth, therefore, we should make sure that we have seen the youth related to them and to make sure that we have seen youths concerning the topic that says together with danger.
Users of drugs that use ways to build a needle is in danger of getting HIV infection.
But on that way it is continuing to be used day.
Are the youths who use drugs.
The danger of the match.
