I love you.
Kinondoni is a must to know one directly.
It can be able to go back to the city because there is no many sitting but together with that you can move forward.
There is a festival that is expected to take up to the church that provides a place where I will give a side of another side of Coco beach and others with going.
If you want to meet a person that you want to go to go to the body, it is a must to go to the body of the ten thousand law to score an eye on those thinking of going to the city.
They will get in Nairobi when you want to go to return to him must have been able to return with him, in order to leave him, he didn't leave him.
In that when they were asked if the road will give him a lesson.
Because the speed by the high speed by other road players will be leading in time.
Race which have not been confiscated by the road.
Those drivers know that most of them do an intentional reason to take my vehicles to take my road, who think they are doing a mistake.
Because any driver can be enough and security and we believe that the driver is supposed to look at the primary issues if we believe that there is no other than the roads he will not lie before the start of a car.
Through there.
Many things in the city ended.
But the?
You have come.
But there is a verses of living without stopping.
Is it not true that there is a few hours to come to the right but also days.
On that meaning you will have done?
And greeted them.
I lead you.
That I love you inside.
Your mental motorcycle has money for Airtel.
It is same.
The direction.
I come at just I seen that you want, but you don't know your life you know.
If you do not see other people also depends on my eyes, but you don't know how the roads were inspected but I don't know what happens here and even if you were not aware that this child is not good and even if you will place it, then it will place it.
But there is no even if you want to promote, we were shocked that there is a police who did not know that this is leading and he didn't know that this is why I think that he is not allowed to see if I was not allowed to use it, but I was not allowed to use it as I was not seen.
You need in America most importantly, I met here there's meaning that even in the past the morning, for many times you're getting to pay here and look for there is no one who was leading but for now, there is no one that he was leading but for now, there is that is what he was told that she was told that she was told.
.
The widow of a lesson on the same way, which has been received very well by citizens as they do so much and there are some areas where the late does not have been arrested and about himself, the late does not have great success.
We've started on seven in the month of ten and two last year and I was looking for data until ten o'clock this month.
For example, Kinondoni District alone has to take them to Kinondoni Municipality before the first one in a month had a close to three hundred million shillings.
But for now, as a result of this system, it has reached five hundred million dollars and you will see that it is a good system that helps you like to make it a good system and you do not know what he does not have money once for now, it does not know what has no money when you get to them the late.
