
After moving a new house, Diamond and Wiz Khalifa, will not return to his defense and I will not hesitate to live with fear.

Precaution taken! I feel you feel that after a big star of Bongo Fleva, Nasibu Abdul "Diamond Platnumz and his girlfriend, Zindzi said that the family is living in a phone following the protection.

We talk about fear about that family, our responsibility is good that together with Diamond to use the millions of money to build that house, a big cost, now the challenge has come to the security and security.

"Friends do not congratulate Diamond for moving to a new house but those of my friends are supposed to be vied for every day.

"Together with reducing the reduction of a building, the challenge is still a challenge on their security.

"You cannot believe that Diamond is still a very disturbing and I don't know what she's confident and that he knows that he is a African star and is not supposed to live with poor security.

Dangerous areas?

"I say this because even the areas he is living is very dangerous to him, therefore he is supposed to have a tough defense, so he is supposed to have a great security so that the nation's security was in a loss of losing a big star as he is.

"I have a lot of one hundred percent to Diamond until today, they have not started even working (procedures) of taking weapons (EFD).

"I am an Albino, then it is a place where people do not been attacked immediately and they live in fear like Diamond how he does.

This is depending on the privacy of reference.

"Another thing that comes to Diamond is an issue of putting everything that is in his internet.

"For example of posting those pictures (toilet) which has had gold and said it has cost 70 million shillings.

"There will not be similar to me, there are many things that have a huge value every time up to the field, there are black patches (television). There is not good deeds for the fox which is good and stop doing so because he gives people to get up," he thanked the source.

What is providing them?

About the security of the home of Diamond, that source claimed that apart from some of the president called Mwarabu, there is no weapon that is seen in the home, therefore the family is supposed to do quickly to employ security guards.

After those news and enough investigation, Friday Wendo led Diamond to remove Diamond Platnumz, Chibu and so as to know how he lives and how he can improve its security and family in general.

Diamond, apart from acknowledging to have fear, he had this fear and said, "the issue of my defense did not know but more people are required to know I am happy with the defender and I continue to strengthen the security of my home.

I don't see if it is a very good issue to people to know the secret of my security but a lot of things to protect yourself I'm in the end of the last time, "said Diamond while continuing with advice from this newspaper about increasing the security that is needed.

What has ever happened?

Previously, I have ever done musician Joseph Mbilinyi "Sugu" who is currently the member of parliament for Mbeya Town (UVCCM), where he had returned from England.

While he has planned for a whole house in Tegeta, Dar, Sugu has got the last article that would like to show the value of his home.

Few days after the period of that period that can't jump, the man urged them being attacked and suffering from everything but he was not affected.
