What's the Escrow scandal, Jakaya Kikwete knew what he knew.
Brightiles 30th, 2014.

It is not easy to take the end of the DUnit Trust Account, we have heard the President Jakaya Kikwete speaking and told me that he had not seen him because he was surprised after retiring from Edward Lowassa and broke out of the cabinet following his resignation from Edward Lowassa who had already met anything.

Even if it comes from the ministers and the attorney general, they are mentioned other to resign as the possibility of the Tegeta Escrow account which was holding a lot of money and one of the famous business people in the country, which were alleged to have heard a lot of money and one of the concerned parties which were claimed to be heard by the party.

However, up to now, we have not heard any statement from the State House especially about the position of President Kikwete in the whole issue especially because his senior leaders including the prime minister, the Prime Minister, Minister of Lands and Human Settlements Development, and others have been mentioned to be part of the people that took the distribution from World Habitat Award and the others have been mentioned as a section of people who bought the electronic, two weeks ago.

Weight of this scandal, and how it doesn't have different popular people in the country and an extent that is mentioned to ask ourselves as President Kikwete did not know anything about this issue and if he knows how we want to get rid of this scandal, because President Kikwete seems not to be separated by IPTL.

At the same time Karume Stadium, who was the secretary general of CCM and the Minister for Planning and Minerals, at the time of August, this year was the executive officer of energy, energy, energy and minerals at the time of August, this year was the executive officer of energy in the month of September this year was signed.

Therefore, we know that the fact of the history that Kikwete knows about the knowledge of IPTL and despite receiving many restrictions that were involved in various institutions and minerals within the year 1997, and his government continued with that process.

For all the long time, President Kikwete was the minister of foreign affairs and IPTL and it has been derived from TANESCO and the government and therefore the very open issue is that Kikwete had a chance to know many issues that are taking place due to being the senior minister for ten years, a time that was also used to make improvements in the international court of business.

Some of us remember that during the fee of the fees, Kikwete was the minister of foreign affairs that came out and defending the purchase claiming that we were doing well by politicians who are close to IPTL, therefore there are many reports that we are getting closer to politicians and close people with the interests of IPTL and the truth.
