
Nyerere's grandson gets a member of parliament.
Jide 22, 2015.

The grandson of the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, Julia Nyerere, has started to follow in the footsteps of his grandfather's politics by signing them in the parliamentary race in Mara province.
Julia (23), has started that journey to serve the profession of political science, but also honoring him by his grandfather, Mwalimu Nyerere.
Already he has already taken and return the form of requesting for being elected by the Revolutionary Party (CCM) to be the nominated member of parliament of that province to represent the youth group in the general elections this year.
He knows that CCM was founded by Mwalimu Nyerere. His father was a member of the ruling party, but her biological mother, Leticia Nyerere is a nominated member of parliament for the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), the main opposition party in the country.
We eat with a dream of being Professor in the near future, he believes that he has the ability to use the position that he wants to claim to have defending the rights of youths in the country including education and employment.
"I would like politics to meet the leadership in my blood of my blood, and what is doing well by my grandfather, Mwalimu Nyerere," says, Julia, in a special interview with Good Citizen this week, in Mwanza town.
His main aim is to succeed to be given that position he will request, to encourage the youth to claim their rights and use the opportunities available in education issues, economy and leadership.
"I will provide education and technical training to the youth with the reasonable level so as to enable them be swept away from the employment market," says Julia and added.
"These efforts will be doing well and encourage sports to youths as one way to avoid sexual abuse and even pregnant women."
His call to youths is to ensure they are participating in elections and the best leaders with the ability to defend their interests.
"Youths have promised to choose leaders that are marrying them and serve them that they had come in reclaiming their money," he says.
We know it is among the members of CCM who followed Doctor Magufuli who is the presidential candidate on the party ticket in a tour to introduce himself to the citizens in Mwanza and Geita provinces.
He has great hopes that his parents (power and Leticia) are ready to help him in state and property in its political movements, from this period of the general elections.
My father, Julia, power has emphasized to the political processes of his daughter, saying that he is a whole person that supports the things that he sees far.
"It is a whole person, he has decided to give me a whole person when he decided to do something, I would decide to do something, I cannot block him, I cannot remove it, therefore, he says power.
When you know she was born and read where?
He was born on June 10, 1992, at Ilala District Hospital in Dar es Salaam city, he was in class one to the second one in that school known as Barakah da International, in the city between 1998 and 1999.
Later in the year 1999, his parents sent him to Benon to America, where he went to class one to six out of the year 2000 and 2003 before joining the Seeing is used in the year 2004 to 2006.
"
"The year 2012 I met with the Islamic State University in America where I read the first degree in science and secondary education this year (2015).
"My expectations is to bring more information here in Tanzania and my dream is to see Professor Lipumba is happy that I would like Professor Lipumba is happy to go back home and I would like to do work with," says Julia.
