
The reputation and importance of Literature in children.
By Bashir Yakub.
FEST has been understood as the art of which use the language about a human being even so, it is in Literature in children whose recent days has started getting married because of research together with a lot of things that are being done.
Literature in children is Fungles is written in the purpose of children and can be a story, poetry, saddens and drama.
The concept of a controversy in because it can be successful by depending on the knowledge of the service provider so that this is due to the thoughts that the child can be successful in different ways by depending on the law, religious, human beings and even psychology.
In general we can explain to Literature in children like the art which uses a language to submit the message that concern children, some of the reputation of Literature in children is together with the swim.
The truth is easy to keep in mind the events and strong winds of this structure of A-B-C with this structure of A-B-C with this structure, can get tired and stop following up on the concerned work or maybe that it does not be able to understand completely.
By Bashir Nkoromo, the greatest desire of the children, especially the books have been published in a lot of small businesses, especially those who have been trying to do if the child is in class four and five when they are still big but not like the class one class.
Also, the work of Literature in class six and seven children will be small than the ones for small children.
The truth comes from color so that they can be able to put on the eyes of the children, color they are trusted and very high table. This situation contributes to the knowledge of children and order to read a chosen job.
The uses of ICSIDO in Tanzania is a condition of the existence of things that do not lie in a very high level that is expected to happen in the normal life.
It is a concept that is used to explain the work of Literature in which means against the reality, the Mighty One, (2003).
FEST has used a unique attraction to the children's work and thus making many children to be happy about the work that they are marrying.
The easy language of children are usually in a easy language that goes with the public and the children of the language "young" are used.
His ability is in the status of human body, in a short period of infrastructure, flour and very disturbing, but if there is the need to do so.
The ease of language results from the age and ability of the readers as well as normal is small, therefore, in very few sentences I could not be dealt with or understood that the poor condition of the language of language.
Other types of jobs are very short and a short man and a short message for a child when he gets a short message, when you look at a picture above and after there is a big book, child who were buried and what they will be buried.
Long work is enough for children and therefore it can cause a lot of attraction to children, stories of children do not have information or details on how your blog are only important in building some issues that are only important in building a story and experience in his context.
Most of the illustrations for a picture include drawings of Literature in children usually have instructions and pictures with color, this situation makes the children not to do easily and they also helps them to involved events in stories with the real world.
The involved in the concerned party in Literature in children usually have the involved in different types of children, there are work that usually have children like the concerned leaders, otherwise, Literature in children use a huge amount of people that they are involved with people with actions which in general are involved with people.
Listen to me, in Literature in children, those involved will be involved in possession of human settlements and they are not aware whether the reputation of a human body and don't have bad qualities that concern them, bad luck and so on.
I thank you for subsistence, annamatinde @ gmail.
