Why do we have patience and thugs?
Brightiles 20, 2014.

If there is something that we do not have patience and it is rape. Kibiga giving a phone value of fifty thousand shillings when he was beaten by Kibiga.
If we have been taught, it is like a culture - it is something that people don't want to use their time to think, let us lose hope, but the police are in the scene of an incident that can make life, "couples, but in other events that citizens have been able to join police.
To take action against the government, it is a thing that is carried out by many leaders who are vying to rebuke actions of people to take action against them and even so there is nothing to listen!, his judgment is death, but this culture is going to take advantage of it here in Tanzania.
You believe it is clear that we consider the theft, but especially the small theft of phone theft, theft of gold, chicken, chicken, and goats, we are using great strength to deal with small theft, an example of using a mosquito to purchase the elephants with someone else.
We thank the Almighty God being stealing our resources like minerals, land, money, and even if we put all our strength to fight us because we are not a certain place, if not in our culture it will be in care of our minds.
What happens, the truth is that we have been unable to do research by many people who live in difficult conditions. Some of them don't have a mother or mother, some of them don't have money to pay for treatment, they do not have money to pay for treatment.
The shivered because there is no other way to live.
What does not know more, it's in order to resolve the life of a person with fifty thousand shillings and one hundred thousand shillings, it's the responsibility of every human being to protect his life and the lives of other human beings who have lost their lives.
My problem and the issue, which requires you to build here is that we do not have patience, but we have patience and the corrupt so that we have patience and the ones that can grow billions from of our nation of our nation.
Our leaders see us that you have patience and let us continue to build a culture of setting up laws in the hands, we do not want jokes, we are supposed to take action against them and let us inform us because it is very humiliating.
I have been asked that maybe if we do not have the ability to sell fifty thousand and one billion is why a total of fifty thousand get the judgment of death, and a total of one billion should be expelled?
Kibuko has identified himself so that he can live, he knows it because he has a lot of problems, most importantly they have reduced up because of his long wealth, most of them have coughing, are running luxurious houses, their children are suffering from outside the country.
There are many things that are done by the corruption, they use our elephants and protect themselves, they sell drug abuse and they are known as until today people have patience and those of the way we know what we don't like?
In Kinondoni also, the young people who wanted to break the palaces, its leasing house and selling them, claims that she is capable of owning the land.
There are a lot of corrupt events to intervene in the rights of citizens, but the surprising thing is that citizens are continuing to have patience and they are continuing to sing a lot of peace and stability.
I don't have other information to direct us about this situation, more than the Almighty God is wrong!
At Ngapa Ward, a respected writer in Kenya, a respected writer in the field of writing books, during his heart book, the devil of books from him is a penalty and it is a must for every time to be stopped in front of the law.
