
You want Tanzania to remember it because it is not good?
First, let me say early, I am not supposed to write about what is why I have chosen this topic today, we should leave the news to be remembered after death, but to leave me.
Lady Jay Moe has ever died that there are people who have history even before they did not go to the world, but those are bad that can not be avoided.
I have said that you are not supposed to talk about the death although it doesn't ensure that they make sure that it has completed our downfall, but I have only answered me in one following day.
He does not support someone who has tried to hear a bad biography of the deceased in a trap of sure that the environment is difficult or reduce food because there are people who will follow up and how you use your Facebook in social media networks.
You have heard the person, says, "couples does not love the man it is writing the same thing," these are very different meanings, when you see your colleague, he sees your friend.
But there are some primary things that due to the age, you should be able to do for your purpose, your family and the nation as a whole.
When you are small, your responsibility is to study and have honor to the whole community, there is a saying in the streets that when a small, you live in, there is a saying that you pay all taxes by getting tired.
That is a responsibility and change while due to the age of when you completed higher education you need to use the nation by working hard and to produce.
It is supposed to pay taxes and to do other community activities like to help the disabled and the elderly this is the time of doing a lot of other things.
You can make a purpose of something or an issue and in this talents this festive season, if you will be used to grow up, early, Mark Zuckerberg has released Facebook in the age of our environment, a situation that is very different and will expand this journey for your private efforts.
At this time it is bad and we have written this here, while you are easy to get in the use of other person and the book can be taught.
Youth popularly known as Hellen Dausen, Flaviana Matata, who died in this step when they have a history ready, "if you get today, rights are happy and maybe that they can use you in education education.
Our responsibility is a history if it is followed as required, everyone can cause history at the same age, which becomes the ability and ability to think new things.
