Strangeness of Mufindi had a shortage of desks!
Petit 30, 2016.

Mufindi is one of the districts in our country and in the middle of the shortage of desks from Mufindi District is leading in the whole country for production of timber arising from the forests that are in that district.
Strangeness of the district of Mufindi, that they have been caught in a shortage of desks, when I speak about this, one of the new provincial head of that district without doubt, it will be peaceful and complete the work of the availability of desks.
I have been able to write, "Christmas is not in suddenly." The mother is looking at the excuse of not using Christmas clothes by saying this year, it came in suddenly! "The man is a parent who did not care about it and not having plans.
For sure, that is an excuse of foolish things and everyone knows that on the Christmas season it's coming on the 25th of December this year cannot come up by suddenly.
The excuse of being like so much and when we are given information of our children success but we have been unable to prepare for form one and this days we should not know that we are doing a number of students who are expected to succeed for exams?
As a country, we have employed members of the education, plans and statistics to these experts including the education officers who have dropped the whole country until in the location.
All days, it is said professionally, that without statistics there is no need for development because you will do it will be careful. I decided to write a example to Sweden, that many development plans are in Sweden and many other countries that are expecting statistics.
We take this example in the education sector of the City Council in Sweden not only depends on the statistics to plan the budget of the year, but the planning of its development plans for five or twenty years depending on statistics.
For the only number of children who were born in the year, they can know the number of children who will use the class seven years to the next five years. They will know the number of children who will start a class one years to come from students who want to continue with that education in 20 years to the next 30 years.
In this issue of statistics, we should take this example, free education plan has caused a large number of students to be registered in class seven this year in Iringa province, where every one who will start class seven in Iringa province will not be able to continue with form one and one hundred thousand people who start class one this year.
We ask ourselves, if the province has encouraged the parents to stop their children, 2016, so that province has also organized more than 100 desks for the year 2023 we have prepared for enough desks but Christmas will not have enough desks but otherwise we are supposed to hear the issues such as Mufindi.
