
Ambassador Seif Ali Idd launching a 4G network of Zantel for the side of Zanzibar.

The second Vice President of Zanzibar Honorable Ambassador Seif Ali Idd has launched a new launch of the 4G network of Zantel in a brief ceremony that took place at the Kisonge grounds in Zanzibar town.
Zantel, the leading phone company in Zanzibar has launched a new service of 4G LTE network on the side of Zanzibar and therefore making sure the availability of high-speed internet will also be able to ease the growth of technology in the islands of Zanzibar.
While launching the service, Honorable Ambassador Seif Ali Idd congratulated Zantel for their efforts to improve communication in the islands of Zanzibar and especially for this new 4G service saying it will help to strengthen the lives of Zanzibar people and grow the economy.
During the launching of the revolutionary government of Zanzibar, as one of the owners of Zantel company is proud of the success of this company, and this launch has shown that our company is growing and continues to benefit all Tanzanians in order to benefit all Tanzanians.

The use of this 4G technology, will help users to get quality and reliable services and also there will be an increase in speed of internet use like Skype services, YouTube and other social media networks.
Speaking during the launch of the 4G internet network, the chief executive officer of Zantel Mobile Phone Company, Mister Benoit Janin said Zantel has been on the front line in ensuring the citizens of Zanzibar get better services and easily.
The Zantel Mobile Phone Company has at all times been the first to bring new creativity to the citizens of Zanzibar, and the launch of this 4G service which shows his intention of continuing to provide better and unique services to the residents of Zanzibar, "said Janin.

Lubuvu has also said that Zantel company will continue to make sure that its customers get a unique services, better and reliable services for continuing to do!
In line with the launch of the 4G service, Bwambale has also said that Zantel company has succeeded to expand the scope of its network in the continent and now the customers of Zantel who are in the islands have no fear from going to the mainland provinces.
As a period, we have done a huge expansion of Zantel network for the continent of Tanzania and we will continue to expand our services but also to improve our customers so that our customers can be able to enjoy, as the one, "said Janin.
From the Millicom Company to 85 percent of the company's shares of Zantel Company, Zantel has focused on its new journey of sustainable investment in expanding and improving the internet and improve service to its customers together with ensuring that it gives Zanzibar people and other customers in general services and modern services.
