
Police who gave a group of demonstrators, Darcoboa.
Khajida Kopa, South Sudan's security officers in the West region, Darassa introducing the demonstrators that had gathered in front of the government buildings while rebels claimed that four people were killed by police.
Security officers, even so, they denied those allegations while saying that there is no one who was killed or injured during that violence.
"The security officers, that were being helped by the groups of Islamic militias have thrown out the demonstrators who had contributed to the demonstrators who had qualified for the border buildings in the West Ham region (SM).
It is alleged that the demonstrators were directed to some of the government buildings after the security officers intervened.
Names of SLM was given names of two people who are alleged to be killed by government officers.
And the government's spokesperson of the West Province, Darassa said that the demonstrators were kidnapped by the security officers after buying three vehicles that have been taken to the office of the government.
"Violence have participated in the body of the Jews were found in Mulago village, that is approximately 50 kilometers from the city of Gikombaa," said the government's spokesperson, Abdallah Mustafa.
The community of the pastor leading the village to begin demolishing their houses, therefore forced the residents of Mulago town to come to their safety in Gwao.
"Youths together with the activists joined the villagers and asked them to front of government offices where they carried out three vehicles," he added.
The efforts of wanting to confirm the claims of switching off from the government's side and the rebels managed to prevent it.
The northern region is caused by violence since the year 2003 where the rebels of SLM group have been faced with the security officers of the government of President Omar Al-Bashir.
Rebels of SB claim that they have been built for development and the government of President Bashir.
The government of Bashir has been accused of causing a mass murder after its army dealing with the rebels of SM by using a war plane.
President Bashir has already been charged in the Supreme Court of European nations (ICC) on claims of being involved in a bomb attacks with a war crime.
President Bashir, even so, he has denied the charges.
