
Nelson Mandela is launched with working in Mbeya City, it is growing up in Stand United 3-0.

Rashid Mkonga.

It is 3-0 goals against the Tanzania national team that is owned by the prisons force in the country against the voters for Shinyanga Stand United Kingdom, have helped the team at least having hope of continuing to remain in the premier league if they will continue with victory for the matches that are remaining.

However, the victory of Kimbari against the new team in that league will still face the team in the last position having managed to attain 16 points against 13 points that it had previously.

The second win has provided a real way of difficult decisions that were done by that team of making sure that the team's head coach, David Mwamoto. who was a good star of Kimbari.

The last victory started in the first minute of the game where those youths were different and it was in the other games they were seen to be self-employed and play with a large extent of enabling victory.

Sunnis with a pose with Jeremia Juma Jimmy an ambassador, Amir Omar and Hamisi Makulu was seen as a painful truth to the bus owners of Abu Dhabi, Peter Mutabunga and Reasonable Doubt.

The team's goalkeeper, John Mwenda was a big offence of attacks from the attackers, who were seen to play without getting tired from the beginning of the game until the end.

The attacks from time to time in the polling station were given fruits in the 30 minutes of the game where the defender of Prisons, Laurian Mpalile taking his team the first goal after a long draw that left the reception area, John Mwenda was chased away without success.

That goal raised the ones for the players' players and playing for not doing well while the bus players who appear like they have not been used to be used in the outskirts of this league being affected by the veins.

However, the pastor of fans of the old team in that league along the age of the game against her player Salum Telela battling it away with the wind and heading into his home where even so, the goalkeeper Mohamed Yusuf, had shot down the last game on suspicion of causing the corner.

Attacks who are supposed to get the goals of two goals were advanced in a high speed and caused the 41 minutes, Amir Omar to pass the ball but the goalkeeper John Mwenda was not chased the ball but the field of the stadium, had gone against the player.

Until before the half time I was asked if they came from the chest with a 1-0 goal.

The second half started with great speed up to the players' players, to show a clean football while the players of Stend went against a goal without success.

It was a first team again in the 52 minutes of the game where this time player Hamisi Makunga told the fans of that team in special seats, just after beating the number of a number that came up because of a long-fielder Ibrahimu Shafiq.

Maasais' after receiving a pass from IS rebels went on issues of the end of the end of Jichunge.'

If it was not expected to fans who tried to cheer their team's team which many times are usually paid in the northern region were tested and celebrated that goal and therefore moving their lives due to the huge violence that is among them the family members of those two teams.

That goal was able to stop the players of the Manchester United team that is normal to have fans with huge violence in the field while at their home ground, therefore, they are forced to rise and avoid sexual water.

He started talking to those players going on with the players of the team that attacked the United's goal as bees, causing a series of attacks on their goal and therefore causing the corners of the 60 minutes.

The corners that are under technical and Jeremiah Juma was killed in the head of Hamis Maasais' and without hesitation scored as Nyanga and scored for him as the head and security guards were unable to believe their eyes.

After getting into that goal, the players of Shinyanga were seen to get up while they have gotten tired with an extent, though their colleagues have been trying to increase the pace when they need to increase the 4 goal.

Until the final match is asked, they were fighting in front of 3-0 goals against Manchester United.

Speaking soon after the completion of that game, the new coach of the country Mbwana Makaka said that he has decided to drive out his players its players and to build a new ability in dealing with a disaster problem in their team.

On his side, the coach of United Mathias Chikawe said that apart from failing to fail in that game he stopped the referees (without explaining more) that they were forcing a ball in stopping.

The regional team is expected to remain in Mbeya City under his match in Mbeya City that is expected to be played at the match on Wednesday night while Mbeya City are expected to be faced with a difficult time in his game, tomorrow they will face the residents of Tanga Mgambo Shooting.
