
What should we be able to save.

It has been written by Regina Koke, Kibaha.

It has been published in October, 2016.

Tanzanians have been advised to increase the rearing of bees, considering that all the provinces in the country is safe for livestock, because the current production is little, compared to the ability of the production of production.

Speaking at the commemoration of World Habitat Day, that was held yesterday at the Ruvu estate area, Kibaha district, Coast Province, research lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam, Christopher Mdose said many citizens do not have a awareness of bees for them.
Mduda, he said that for now the heart which is growing here in the country is 38,000 thousand tons, equivalent to 24 percent per year, whereby it is very little compared to the big areas in the country.
"The level is very little, the ability we have like the country is big, the citizens should not depend on the rearing of bees and to produce a lot of medicine, there are no merit and that is the work of the elderly," said Mdigo.
He said research has revealed that the heart which is manufactured in the country, is available in the world market because bees are selling in different flowers different from producing strong winds that are not available nationally.
He mentioned five enemies in the rearing of bees so as to get better crops being strong, fire, noise, water such as rains and pests and pest.
The Deputy Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ramo Makani urged the farmers of bees to leave the habit of getting rid of the night because they cause many people to go and also get married to the farmers who died, instead he urged the experts in that sector to educate more citizens to stop the rearing of poor eyesight.
"We are doing today to encourage the citizens so that we can have a lot of songs and the best, eventually getting better production and get a lot of money," said Makani.
Kibaha district commissioner of Assumpter Mshama said the district has caused many trees, which is an opportunity for the citizens together with the youth to enter the rearing of bees.
This is one of the reasons for representing us to get in the rearing of bees, but it's just a request to help the youth to give them loans for the same level, which is being sold more than one hundred thousand shillings, "said Mshama.
The chief executive officer of the Tanzania Electrical Mechanical and Electronics Services Agency (TFS), Professor Dafrossa Lymo said that the quality of the user has been used by sharp teeth.
"The sector has been successful in providing employment as livestock, processing of bees, and also the selling of bees, thus increasing the call it will help to contribute to the national income," he said and added that in commemorating that day, in Kibaha area, they will set aside 50 acres that will be served as a class of testing production.
