Ukawa is a good example.
Sep 18, 2014.

I am happy to listen to the constitutional parliament I see it clear that there is a shortage of lack of delegates from the group of UKAWA which was made up by delegates who were from the CUF party, CHADEMA, and the NCCR, has reduced to a large extent of the debate in parliament.

From the group of UKAWA there are politicians who live with great scholars and among them is an economist Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, there are many others like the lawyer, Tundu Lissu, John Mnyika and many others who have been confirmed to have the great ability to build the motion and lobbying.

The presence of the participation of UKAWA in parliament, I believe it will improve the constitution that will be done by when I was the first Tanzanian, I am happy to know that their absence of lack of UKAWA comes from the fact that there is a view and agree with a lot of challenges that UKAWA which are in the country including three governments.

After UKAWA has thrown out a big effort happened for Ukawa to return to the parliament of Ukawa, they refused the ward to listen to the citizens to listen to them and are also the chairperson of the Revolutionary Party and the Revolutionary Party (TCD) whose delegates are parties with members of parliament.

According to the chairperson of TCD, John Cheyo said in that meeting they had agreed with the process of writing a new constitution to have been postponed because there is no enough time to end the process before the next general elections and instead of the current constitution to have amendments to several sections especially regarding the elections.

However, after the statement by John Cheyo to the media, different types donated by those agreements, while Cheyo said that the parliamentary seat is after the constitutional assembly is expected to end, the delegates of UKAWA claimed that the decision is that the parliament should be stopped immediately.

On his part, Cheyo said the Parliament of the constitution that is going to vote and passing the proposed constitution and after the next general election, the opinion polls are given, while UKAWA they want after the next elections the process started afresh, although there is a difference of ideas on the steps of starting.

While Cheyo has mentioned the lack of enough time to be the reason for the decision to postpone the parliament, considering that there is a election which will be given some people who have been unable to get out of UKAWA which is the reason for the decision to postpone the process.

Ukawa could kill Samuel Sitta, the chairman of the Constitutional Assembly by not postponed the parliament and some of the statements of UKAWA aims to show that President Kikwete wants the parliament to have been completed now, but if President Kikwete wants parliament to have been completed now, because I am glad to do that.

The editor of one of the newspapers in the country who is also the lawyer, speaking in an interview with one program of television, he said that the act of Sitta did not postponed the parliament being arrogant by President who is his boss, added that editor who's his boss, added that editor who's his boss, added his boss.

While Sitta was accused, it should be remembered that the chairperson of TCD who is the one who has contributed a statement and clarification after the sessions, who is a member of the Special Parliamentary Constituent. However, Cheyo being known as Sitta.

This is clear that in this period is that many have been activists and in a lot of time, we are questioning the issues that concern journalists, laws, and that logic, we have been stopped apart from instead of energy that have reduced.

Now UKAWA has banned demonstrations so as to ensure the parliament should be taken before October 4th this year because it is embezzlement of public funds, the exercise is mentioned to be embezzlement of public funds, and even some of the delegates of the former commission of constitutional changes have not joined the process of wanting the parliament to be stopped.

If they feel that the lack of UKAWA is looking for the legality of the constitutional parliament because the constitution that will be made due to an appropriate time is one of the scholars and the famous activists, Professor Kitila Mkumbo, told one television station recently in an interview that he will do a campaign to measure the constitution that is not known because it did not like good or bad.
