There are increasing the record for women.

October 4, 2016.

.
While explaining about the implementation of various work and success of the production at that factory recently, Mister Chagaka Kalimbia says that the factory of destroying of Mbagala, Casillas mother, has continued to have a benefits to the citizens, especially women, and to pay enough tax to the government.
He says that the factory has been given a special certificate for women in employment so as to fulfill the goal of the government to enable the women economically since the women improve economically is development for the family and even in the whole community, that is why they have been able to serve more than 400 desks.
Luseko says he doesn't see women only in the country for their efforts they have been able to do this factory to continue doing this factory because they have good work in work, therefore, a factory does not have a loss.
When I like, you know that we have employed more than 400 women and I say it's not 400 women and those who depend on more than 12 thousand we know that women are the father of the family, "Masau boasted.
He explains that he has done a work as a manager of more than three countries in Tanzania and here in Tanzania has 16 years since it was done here in the country, he said to be buried in all the years is that the industries' workers are good and faithful.
He gives the example of the performance in that factory by being able to evade illegal immigrants here in the country and India that in India, one person can be filled with 8 kilograms of immigrants in a day, but in Tanzania he was beaten 12 kilograms of that one and a half-day work in accordance with the law.
He says that this is an important sign that if Tanzania will plan well in the industry sector will be successful because it does not have enough market and also there is enough market inside and outside the country because the neighboring countries still have a big industries.
Moreover, he advised that it is important to strengthen the infrastructure especially to the neighboring countries since a business person gets.
He can get more benefits so if there is a good market in the countries of those products that were taken to there are benefits to the country and to enable the country to make progress in development.
The existence of criminal factory which is in Mbagala in Dar es Salaam city involved with the killing of suicide bomber in order to be sold, started production, started production in the year 2000, began by rewarding its permanent employees and 253 households.
Due to the good performance of employees, it has enabled a factory to run itself with productivity and forced the first phase to increase employees so that production can be able to fulfill the needs of the market and this is the previous secret of success in the factory.
This factory is one of the six small industries that are in the country it is good to recognize that these industries are far and providing employment to the industry, so they have enabled farmers to buy low-income farmers during the season of that season.
Bey wa Mitego has no longer a challenge that affects the production of that factory including the availability of industries in the country as well as lack of natural resources in the country together with those businessmen fond of transportation here in the country together with those businessmen to buy fuel which have not been harvested for the purchase of farmers.
He says that the action of giving an opportunity for the purchase of a lot of food to industries is needed because those business people that transported outside do not have high costs that are using industries in the country.
In addition, he shows that apart from taxes, they have also salaries that serve the workers, there are other costs of running the factory thus the farmers get it is little or can be a factory for a whole year and to compensate the costs that are used.
Moreover, he spoke about the importance of checking the challenges because they are providing employment to the citizens thus it is important to put aside for local industries by giving out their sponsorship if they do the country of Mozambique to purchase farmers.
He mentions the other challenges that are high costs to be high due to the tax of importation, he says it is a must to pay government tax but it is important to check the needs of the internal industries so that they can grow.
Furthermore, he explains that many times the animals that sell it is not better and affect the great loss, it gives an example that sometimes they buy fish, whereby every 5 kilograms of animals are there, shot down from 1 kilograms, while there were shot.
It will sell farmers within and out of the country, one of the countries that pay them from this factory are being sold at the Dubai East Africa Community and New York city, an amount of 90 kilograms that are sold in those countries is about 1,569,854 kilograms.
It is good to have a plan that will give the industries a relief to run their industries because the presence of industries is the presence of employment for many citizens who do not have any profession.
