The killing of road accidents.
Sep 25, 2014.

Five days later, he announced the arrest, Tracked, Andrew Shamba from the killing of her fiancée, Lee Ney, a case of Tracetamol when it started to be heard in the Bromwich, in July first, 1997.
In the previous information of the lawyer, David Ciano, left the council of the advisers who came to the case that he will give to the court to pass and cause poverty that has been charged with approximately 30 times and thus caused a huge injuries that caused him to get blood in large numbers and causing his death.
The weapons did not be found because of Tracetamol when he fell into his shoes and eventually falls it in one barrel of the hospital, where the deaths of crime, they found the blood cells, found themselves in the cross-shirt to Tracou.
Also, those experts of investigations were found that the remains of Trachoma in hand with the support of Trachery, and also a modem that fell very close to her husband's body, showed that there was a conflict between those lovers.
It defeated by saying that when he was not in the area, that's when Tracetamol when he got the near to him, the lawyer, Cindy, added saying that, he has pointed a finger to Tracetamol when he went to him but also he was not involved with the incident. "
The prosecutor in that case claimed that the killings are at the peak of a relationship that had violence between those lovers, whereby Bey was chased away from time with Tracked and back to their parents, the police had been outdated, due to their grievances so that they're close to them.
It was claimed that in the evening of that day they were since the killing of Tracetamol when they went to home, they were going back home where their vehicle caused the death between those lovers.
Those witnesses were their homes, workers in the night clubs as they visited the city where he had explained the way Traculence with a sharp object until he was called a police who was born in a house of those lovers, after being named by the neighbors who were involved with the noise from their conflict.
However, another evidence that had a strong man was the one that was given by a daughter of nine years through a video book, but he has shown that the man was speaking on how he was speaking with another person who had a red card as a girl, she claimed that he was speaking on how he was speaking with another person who was coming from, therefore he did not witness anything.
In addition to being given out that evidence, however, that lawyer was announcing the Traculence, the Lord 'Thwaites came out in defending himself in the court when he seems not to be worried that Tracou denied involvement in the killing of her lover Nay wa Mitego.
"I love you so much more than anything here in the world," said Mister and he continued because the court said that it is true that their love was dominated by violence, but it was a normal violence and love. He continued to explain how his information was like to see the police in an previous interview.
Being interviewed by the prosecutor, David Cutch, told him what he did not ask for support together and that the event happened on the area which is far from 15 minutes to 17 minutes by Tracht while answering the question that he had a huge shock.
"The incident was making me feel like my soul has separated with the body," said Tracetamol when he stopped him, "said Tracetamol when he stopped the support is due to try to collect ideas on how to make a story to the police."
