
It is since when talking about it there was a threat to you and be a threat?
The situation to take place if it is facing a strong winds of Diamond after his leaders seen a lot of talks about the proposal of the leaders of Correa scored by President Uhuru Kenyatta for a discussion.
The country is present since the leaders do not start being involved with that stand!
It is clear that the leaders are required to have one stand about one thing that is where the results of the issue should be good for all sides.
Some of the leaders of Diamond's branches are supposed to want this discussion and the others did not go back, but I want to remind of these leaders that they want to remind them in the special issues that are facing this country.
I urge the leaders of Diamond to read the holy Bible, a book of Prophet Isaya, 6 from the first round, why our leaders are supposed to be allowed to be taken by the terrorists of Al Furqaan Islamic Center since they were attacked and caused the deaths of many people.
Therefore, I am surprised at all countries of England and America to advise his citizens to communicate, Kenya because it is facing a threat of an attack by the terrorists of Al Shabaab.
In my opinion, it is wrong and hatred in which it's not supposed to be accepted.
David Mosha, Mombasa, Mombasa, building Swahili courses in the country, results of the Swahili subject in Magole primary school, many questions among the activists and lovers of the language.
Probably, the main reason is to find out among the teachers and the students in order to listen to them it would not have this matter so that everything may have reduced to a large extent and will not be found in mind.
In addition, students are usually admitted to speak Swahili and other languages that are all the days and therefore, let it get bad luck against this language.
I ask you to follow the lovers of this subject in higher schools to move on and invest in their time and of students in reading the Swahili language so as to improve its results.
David K. Nyerere.
The University of Masililiyo Ireton will be the winner in, and you've commended the NMG by appointing Mister Tom the winner as the acting director of the festival after retiring from the executive director, Mister Joe Jolamu.
Mister, the winner is a praised with the journalism profession considering that he was one of the chief editor of the Daily News newspaper.
Or for sure, the winner has won his position with the eyes of the termite in the broadcasting field.
Elshamy told the University of Mombasa when we thank the partnership with the cooperation between social society and Karaaha in Uganda so they must be commended.
The step of being received by the farmers from Galinoma who from Uganda is supposed to be commended and also to be followed by the country of Ethiopia and South Sudan.
If there will be a good example, it means that even the welfare will spread from one country to another.
In the same time, Ethiopia and Kenya have reported that it is facing people to play with others in Somalia and Kenya, the relationship is to improve this country when it gets.
AUTOT, Turky (black) he believes that he was caught in collaboration between him and he said that they must be satisfied and that this country had a lot of standards at the same level.
Some of the governors who have continued to use the crime instead of working.
He said another reason like the mosquito are flooded and hostility seen and it intends to bring back the process of voting.
Conflicts of every time you are not living and even other world leaders are surprised by Kenya is a country of which kind.
I request all the chairpersons of all angels the strategies of cooperating and to recognize issues of exchange each other when the union makes it more better than separation.
Dorcus Moshi, Mombasa.
