And entertainment.
Religious leaders in the country have been encouraged to continue providing contribution in ensuring peace and stability of the country that you can't be maintained in the country and to take them in the country and added that though the conflict was not allowed by the human being it is good to take precaution on more information and malaria.
It is saying that religious leaders here in the country is represented by some of the political parties and various community groups that took place in Dar es Salaam city with the aim of discussing religious leaders in protecting and maintain peace in different areas in the country, that conflict is normal for a human being, but then.
If it can be a catalyst to change with benefits but we do not have any time to take them.
When the violence and conflicts comes up because it can be able to give a culture of not knowing each other and eventually the collapse of our long-term work.
Chikawe also thanked these leaders for their contribution of protecting the peace, although there is still a challenge that you used to be patient and could make it a lot in the peace we are.
I have been using a lot of wisdom, if a mosquito can be able to look for a solution of fox which are derived from a few people who live in peace.
Development are not seen but if there is peace that is the meaning of your opportunity in the future of this country, so much and important is the participants to take that opportunity to maintain peace here in the country.
First, all are looking at all actions.
They feel.
Those shivered.
But we believe that there should be an issue from a man.
It will not be taken as the church I have done.
It will be taken that it is a husband who is one of its weaknesses, he has done so and will meet with the aim.
We have said guardians are the father and mother, but the guidance especially the poor.
Now, the mother to the children get pregnant and infants.
They are not found.
Maybe when you are saying that you will not talk about good issues that has talk about the language 'sorry' of love is speaking in the language of peace when the child is.
The two-day seminar has been organized by the national committee to prevent the killings of criminal crime against human beings every time when discrimination will be discussed when they will face.
Retired prime minister.
