
The committee has helped Taifa Stars and TFF which have conflicts and causing a finger to the toes of a knee injury.

Saida Taifa Stars, has finished in the work with his bid officially yesterday, but behind him has left many questions more than answers about the performance and his relationship with the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF).

TFF president, Jamal Malinzi, made that committee to encourage Stars to win Algeria and qualify for the group stage to play for the World Cup championship in the year 2018, instead, Stars ended up a total of 9-2 goals.
A big issue that resulted to an eruption of cement is an issue of air travel because of Stars going to Algeria for the repeat game.

Previously, that committee under the chairperson, Farha Bagashe, claimed that getting the sponsorship from Fastjet company has gave a donation of the tickets to reach 700 million dollars (1 million shillings) to go and return to one person.

However, when the committee plans for transport plans through Fastjet, TFF has mentioned its plans and decided to use the Turkey plane (430 kW) at a cost of 1,200 million dollars (5 million shillings) to one person.
Listen to me, it was explained that Fatema were given a short time (eight o'clock) to Algeria, while the Turkey plane joined with 11 o'clock to Algeria.

The Deputy Chairperson of that committee, Michael Wambura yesterday said when he was speaking to journalists that the issue of climate change was decided by TFF with the authority's journey.

"The committee did his work, but the end of the day TFF decided to join another plane," said Wambura.

Furthermore, when he was asked if there was no communication between the committee and TFF about transport, the chairperson of that committee, Farha Bagashe, said at the sessions of the committee, there were leaders of TFF and they failed to know everything that was going on.

"I cannot have a finger to a person, but there was people of TFF in the committee and we were surprised by the decisions that were released," said Bagashe.

Bagdad said they had done the procedure (left) Fastjet up with the decision by TFF to refuse to use that plane, has brought in a cost of 75 million shillings.

"The cost of removing the journey which already was prepared, we are forced to pay us as a committee," said Bagashe.

He said that the committee succeeded to collect 120 million shillings, which used them to pay for the team's camp in South Africa together with going to a hotel in the city of Dar es Salaam while waiting for a match against Algeria.

On his part, the secretary general of TFF, Selestine Mwesigwa said that the committee claims it was not working with transparency and that many issues did not have truth.

Therefore, (the committee) does not like to talk about the truth, it is a surprising thing that we expect to use affordable prices and go with high costs, the truth is that Fastjet did not give a problem if the committee claimed, but they were looking for passengers, "said Mwesigwa.

"We did not want a shame to fail to clean the team by depending on Fastjet which we did not have sure."
While filling it more the committee, Mwesigwa said that the committee never ever made any agreement with Fastjet about reducing costs for the TFF.
"We cannot accept the reports of the mouth, we want things that are doing well in writing," he said and added.

"If the committee would have shown an agreement that has signed with Fastjet, we had decided to use Turkey club, but it did not be done, why should I put the expectations in work that are not sure?

Supervision of masturbation.
Taifa Stars has the sponsor of Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) with the responsibility of serving their teams in many things, but already the committee claims it has used 120 million shillings from various stakeholders.

Previously, the committee claimed that it used more than 1 billion shillings because of all the costs in two Stars matches against Algeria, but it has been unable to get a quarter of those funds.

Still, that committee told us that it does not have money that gave 500 million shillings to the team if they could leave Algeria in that tournament. If Stars get to pay, those 500 million will be from.
