
If we have heard of these symptoms, what are we forbidden from?
Brightiles 21, 2014.

Last week I have written saying that every time I look at people involved in me I don't see Christians and true Muslims, so they can hear people when they get them as believers of this religion or not.

This is more than the plain truth that most of us are believers of these two religious leaders, but we have faith that most of them have not died completely.

That religious faith are from one place of the world and will live in other parts of the world, it is not true that for our two religious leaders here in the country, we know how to Christianity, in the central region and spread very fast and expanded many countries in the world.

In a certain environment, these faith were spread through a sharp object in the other time being spread by Muhanga of Upanga in the other times been spread by visitors who were seen as a great ability of economic and technology, this ability will realize that the competence of God is about the locals of the locals.

However, these faith managed to build the competitions in different continents and get many followers because they were accompanied with good teachings, love, love, joy, stomach, togetherness and so on.

For example, the teachings of the Lord Jesus created them to make the believers to be careful, even to people who are doing evil to each other, and so on it will be easy to follow up on how to get married and so on.

All Muslims have been supposed to avoid opportunistic infections, (especially to poor households) and hypocrisy, and also dealing with evil deeds, you can't know if you can't know, you can't know, and if you can't know, I have a lot of people to know it.

When I think that I don't know Muslims and Christians in the environment we have today, that is my meaning that every time you see "do not recognize them," I am very happy to attend to prayer every day in a service and singing so much, and give birth on how to prevent it.

But in this actions, when I see you are smoking, fraudsters has been forced to carry out and find out, the ones that are determined through our society and our nation, and what are the ones that are making us benefit from our community and even those who are names like Abdala and Paul.

Yes, I am saying that I did not see religious faith, and I don't have the competence of doing so even so, I believe that even a person doesn't know what we believe in our country.

Let me tell me that it's just recently, we have witnessed the great behavior that was done by people who are called the parliament to make sure that "the parliament" and the process of "the constitution" in general, can be done to great success.
I had already explained to say it's why I believe that the whole process was extremely honored.

However, together with you of the headlines, I did not think that we had gone through what I had seen me during that time I had seen me during the time that I didn't forgive me, but at least we need to forgive him, but at least they need me against this shame.

Most of the ones that I explained by the ones that are affected here where we are just where we are continuing to say that we have an intention of writing a new constitution while the way we think it is supposed to say that we are not supposed to say it should not know what we should not know and we should not want them and we have no need to do.

We have hear people receiving abusive language if they get married without any other, and I have been asked if this is the fruits of our education that had been sent to them.
I have asked if these are fruits after the fourth division of grade IV are the political upbringing that we gave them to the members of parliament. "Or the real article of" Landscrona ', "the late Sethi.

It is true that the picture that we have seen in Dodoma is the real situation of our country, because if the ones that said tax exemptions have reduced, it is fear that we have invested in a long time, and now we have succeeded to see fruits or ignorance about it.

Many times we have written about the representatives of this country who go outside the country to attend the meetings when they do not have the ability to participate in the debate while even if I asked you, we will make sure we get into home, again in Swahili language, you are not wrong, and they do not know anything?

We also learn about the "P-Square" (give and give you) a political thing that makes us continue to discuss transparency and without enmity, we agree on how to agree with transparency and how it should not agree?
Who told us that during the debate between two sides, there is one side that can take 100 percent?

These are the members of parliament "of this kind, we know that it is the picture of our community, and if we believe that I was not feared.
