
Best farming for rice.

The captain by the attempt failed to be demolished.

The rice of their own kind is affected by many people especially in the African continent and it is the second largest in large numbers for the age of rice, food and modern farming which is needed more in the areas with a lot of water and enough rains.
There are different meanings that many farmers do not use if they are.
The way of treating the soybean seeds of planting trees.
There is a high way.
(I) is to clean the fare by using the water of poverty, take your water into the cotton fund and sell your seedlings to the cotton fund and sell your seeds inside the fund and sell them through illegal ways to eliminate the pests who are inside the seedlings.
(Second) gave the seeds, this is doing the seeds that is forced to do, to prevent them, also to prevent drug abuse.
(III), Kabigiri ends the same, he resorted and it is necessary for 24 hours (48 hours and it helps to make sure that the seedlings are getting in the same time.
The ongoing action is going on.
- it is not good to maintain the farm at least 15 days before planting trees or directly or one, it helps to protect Reeva, to get to be self-pest and prevent it's disappearance.
The use of the farm by growing, Aisha Bui, by being supported or a cow or out of the heavy rains.
The following day is giving the soil a vote in order for USE or a small pieces of them.
- Kitegu has said that it is to rise up to the farm, but in this step, there are others who do not get the seedlings to one.
The step of taking the first round and the second takes place, we must identify the weeds or vote of Vientiane.
- he also added that drugs for desks have been involved, after buying seedlings to the farms and use of drugs, and also used as a need.
- you have been advised to get by getting pregnant women, making clothes to get rice.
The way of shivered.
There are two ways that farmers use rice bran.
(I) of buying seedlings to the book and reduction on the farm, which is where it's time to climb it and this will be ready for three to four weeks since they grow them.
(Second) paying the seedlings to these things, this is being used by many farmers for a long time whereby rice bran comes back to one of those times such as part of production caused by the farm as many weeds.
Poor pests in agriculture.
The rice destruction that came from the village animator, plants, plants, who have the ability to reduce the level of production of poverty, there are many faints that are affected by the non-communicable diseases, and Orkesumet.
.
The rice of taking part of four months (4) up to 6 (6) due to the type of contraception it used after planting up to the same time.
To get the magazine that has the lead in agriculture for rice, click here.
For communication.
739 of 40,046.
