Kibaya is not a long time.
The possibility of those leaders was released on bail or how to follow me.
Efforts to deal with them.
Opinions of the police force depends on how I will say that on bail is something that every corner of the debate is not the right, but those are leaders who have written all time at any time being found but now.
We are not pleased by the police force.
This short time.
His work is to try to build a lesson that will let him go and he can fall in December because of it.
It is not lawyers.
I was done?
While those leaders continue with the meeting before being taken by police in the country there was a gathering of CHADEMA followers who may be arrested or their environment for the meeting was in a condition and I was not there in a meeting with the attorney general of the party.
Lawyer Lisu speaking with the Singida East member of parliament, there was a case of incitement which was opened up until the afternoon but the report I got where I think all people will be taught.
There was no problem and there's no problem.
It is shaken.
The head of peace but if it is saying that, it is true we should live so that it can be given information on the session.
The don't have risen up but I am saying they are marrying.
It's not that I was very peace and there was no normal work for you.
Why do you live in activities.
As the lawyer of CHADEMA.
It is a party not to fight for these winners who are meeting at a special time because even the possibility of people in the party members and all lovers are all over the world.
It is very important because more than that, it usually needs peace.
Issues of the chairperson of the party will work.
It's not yet heard the lawyer of those former leaders of CHADEMA saying things were so much and those are the ones that wanted the registrar today early, but the date.
In September, it seems that it is on the date it has a importance of many things that were planned on Sunday Shomari, in which other things are there about this date, which I have failed.
And it's a lot that he is talking to think about one date, especially the preparations for a mental meeting which maybe the government officials claim that if we are not less than the police force and to give them a warning and they have been arrested, we see that they have arrested any directive against terrorism.
And when it will not end there, the attorney general also, we have heard that George Masaju to continue to say that she knows the Jaguar type and its followers to maintain peace but now all this will be heard.
CHADEMA has emphasized that they are supervisors for the demonstrations on September first of games that will be approved by police and some of its leaders like what are being held by police.
It's not yet known when we had already met the police force including Al-Yo when they are doing cleaning and what is taking place on September first, are saying it is to commemorate fifty years of the army in the whole of September.
We will let me see what these things will be continuing with sexual here in the country, we will continue to sell the desire for the way he gets a surprise, then thank you so much for the people who participated in Pakistan to Nairobi, Sunday, Shomari, and two who participated in relation to the conditions and I believe it is real.
You shouldn't know the night of the body that is not acceptable.
Or to grow up.
