
Entrepreneurs should be educated on the license.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

More than 40 entrepreneurs have been given education about the important procedures that are supposed to follow when they get a quality license from the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), being a strategy to ensure it does not want it, or sell products without considering the quality.

Speaking to the entrepreneurs at Mlimani City grounds in Dar es Salaam city when he was giving them a good opportunity to use that organization for the levels to ensure that their products are producing or they did not involve the market without the verification of quality.
According to Haule, the organization of standards did not affect its customers, therefore all entrepreneurs including the business people who have been forced to use it, just after sending the request to confirm the quality of products or services to the director general of TBS.
"We wish you very much and this is the best, to give them the products that it has been confirmed to be the same as compared to their services or services.
The foundation thing is to ensure that you confirm that the quality of products and your services before going to the market and the procedure of setting up a long distance, "said Haule.
Apart from that, he urged entrepreneurs not to arrive at that organization to get answers of the questions that bothers leaders about different services offered.
He said there is a possibility that entrepreneurs were left with a lot of needs to know the important issues about TBS but they have the answers of using them into the estates, therefore they decided to bring in their products in the market and therefore decided to bring in their products in the market.
Haule urged the entrepreneurs not to be interfered with the invention and swept up or given the quality of quality and people in the streets because that organization does not have a person or an agent, to use the purpose of providing quality licenses in the estates.
