
The statement by Edward Lowassa after NEC was announcing Doctor Magufuli to be the winner of the presidency.

How do I register my colleagues!

Today, 29th October 2015, through my running mate, Honorable Juma Duni Haji, has officially presented our complaints about the entire general election of 2015 to the chairman of the National Electoral Commission.

We have forgotten in our complaints, not being satisfied with the trend of various events, especially the broadcasting of the real results so that they do not affect the real results that were found in the stations to vote, as we follow.

While seeking to save my votes.

He increased votes for the presidential candidate.

We're continuing to refuse to put this fight against the requirements of the citizens, and the attempt to put it open due to the trend of the commission to announce the results of the commission to continue announcing the results of the commission that are not true because of our victory.

Moreover, there has also been a win of victory for the candidates of UKAWA in the parliamentary level and council.

As we have explained yesterday, our statistics showed that I was leading in more than 67 percent, and now they have noticed that I have found 10,6795 percent equivalent to 62 percent after completing the work of collecting forms for the results in the whole country.

In this situation, I urge the National Electoral Commission to be released immediately by Edward Ngoyai Lowassa as the winner of the presidential position of the United Republic of Tanzania.

I continue to thank the citizens for your faith in me and to see it, me, together with my fellow leaders, we believe that you are doing your rights to get changes, and all leaders, therefore, I will continue to be together with all Tanzanians to claim your rights with all their rights.

In Tanzania for many years it has been known as a state of peace in Africa, we were surprised today to see the security and security forces to rise in every place with criminal weapons so that they do not identify the citizens so that they believe that Tanzanians will not accept this situation.

Lowassa, Edward Lowassa.

Approximately 1002 votes.
