
The government is getting a loss of 500 million shillings to a poultry project.

It has been written by Fadhili Abdallah, Kigoma.

I was published today 27th October, 2016.

The government is expecting to send a team to inspect and supervise the implementation of the project of palm oil in Ilagala village, Uvinza, Kigoma province so as to see if there are laziness that have been done during the implementation of that project that caused the government to loss of more than 500 million shillings.

The Minister of State, Office of the Vice President, Environment and Union, January Makamba, gave the statement following the report of failing to work for that project which is part of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) that was completed since the year 2013, with an environment in River Malunde.
He said that it is a must for experts to learn and explain why the project failed to work and bring productivity to the citizens, but also to conserve the environment due to processing processing of palm oil located in Heka village as a big environmental problem.
The statement by Makamba came after the report of the chairman of Uvinza district council, Jackson Chove said that the factory was unable to be used by citizens as a result of a small production done, different from the level which is affecting the forest.
Previously, the Environment Officer of Environment and Natural Resources of Uvinza district, Masumbuko Kwileka, told Makamba that the project has failed to work since it was completed due to water problem, since the water boreholes that were sunk due to water sources from the lake which is abolished by water due to the water shortage.
One of the set up said that there was also a problem of a clean flour to provoke the palm oil which were born with small-scale enterprises due to lack of enough food that can take cooking oil well and therefore the council has planned to put it a way to return water services for production.
Together with those statements, Makamba said that until December this year, all people who are doing production activities along the rivers that arise in Kigoma province within 60 meters to ensure they are removed.
