
A new store was started.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been published, 08 November, 2016.

The new store for buses to go to the villages that was moved out of the Kiroreli village, has started working officially while drivers put the decision by the government in this province to set aside that area which has a great opportunity.

They said that the stand was at the Majengo area, where there was no problem with many buses that were looking at the outskirts of the main road and caused the major disruptions to those vehicles, and some of the vehicles that were passing by that area.
One of the drivers, Haji Ayoub, speaking on behalf of his colleagues, he said that the stand has not allowed because it has a great opportunity different from the buildings.
"We saw the government to follow up closely on the issue of women living inside, because it is a big challenge of drivers and passengers waiting for air travel to the villages," said Ayoub Nyenzi and added that it is good for the municipality to understand that issue because the state of food in the stage is a problem.
He said other issues like a place to sit for passengers is not a problem, because that stand has a great opportunity to sit.
Another driver, Brendan Rodgers said the municipality is required to be commended for that decision, because it was a big problem to passengers together with drivers because the previous day of vehicle was free while the vehicle congestion is big.
"I have been happy with the efforts of the government to make sure that the stand starts work, in a good must for them to talk for now, we will do a work in peace because we are in the beginning even considering the vehicle was work due to the congestion of the vehicles," he said.
When he was questioned about the lack of mothers living in that area, the Executive Director of Dodoma Municipality, Godwin Mutahangarwa "said he is happy about to know his fate.
"Let me listen to you to be sure because I don't have sure that pregnant mothers are required to have a special place for selling food in the area," he explained.
