
We were written by sex through the internet.
One person has called me to ask you a question about sex business on social media networks and he also asked me about the responsibility of the government and experts of information and communication technology (ICT) in dealing with that business.
In this article I will talk about several issues from business itself, the responsibility of the government, parents and community.
If you check the statistics of people who are in these networks right now, you will discover 80 percent of things like sex if it is not a picture, then to learn how to lead the sex or look for drugs to increase love for love.
This is how the things are being wanted by people from work, homes, universities and in mobile phones.
It is true that currently there is a big business business that involves social networks and this business has started today or yesterday.
But the growth of social media has changed more that this business up to reach the peak which has never been seen in the history of a human being.
Starting from Facebook, WhatsApp, Iniesta, Kaizerege and other networks are some of the people who have started groups because of educating and putting these pictures, but there are there some who sell them by putting their photos together with communication.
In social media like Facebook for example, there are laws concerning the pictures that were being supported by the company itself, therefore it is easy to be dirty and Facebook for one.
Those with things or website of sex or those using sex pictures will increase the income, most of the laws of the internet.
These basically, they are people who are looking for life in life and their income through sex issues.
The whole world, all people who uses sex pictures do not have explanations about the website and insisted that people with correct age to visit their website.
In the countries that are developed, the government have signed a stern legal action and other services concerning sex here in our country, and we have been cowards and we are saying that issue is not present because they are ethics.
It is good for the government through the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) talking about this issue and maybe improve some of the sections of the communication law in the country so as to bring issues of the operators of sex networks.
The government through TCRA can partner with the institutions that concern AIDS and other community development to prepare education to the public about wrong things.
If the parent of us know your website or has joined groups in social media networks, to know what I conclude by saying the computers and other equipment are important in our modern life if I conclude by saying the computers and other equipment are important for our modern life, if I conclude by saying the computers and other equipment are important to continue living in life.
For children like the computers should be given, they should be given a special time and to be educated, so they can be involved in different levels of computer or that are involved.
