John Pombe Magufuli.
Deodatha Makani, 2015 with Raia Mwema, entertainment and games.

Let me start this article by thanking the Almighty God for enabling our Tanzania to arrive safely on the general elections and finally the election will be done in peace and security to a large extent that we had not been able to see approximately all elections taking place in peace and calmness.
But we can't know the eyes and look at some of our neighbors, we will realize that we have succeeded in a very big examination.
Secondly, I commend our colleagues that despite different meanings in our country, by using your democratic rights, by using your democratic rights, but in general we believe this elections have touched me the world about the origin and given priority to worship and calmness.
Until this time I see this article, the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and his candidate, Doctor John Magufuli the ones leading in a lot of votes were not seen, "my wife in the internet said by CCM will win by an average of 60 percent.
Secondly, for those results, the reason for Ukawa and his candidate, Edward Lowassa will be unable to change because of the number of presidential votes, parliamentary and councilors.
Third, I wouldn't have decided to pay a lot of seats (although symptoms show that I've known as Lowassa and Ukawa in general, the senior leaders of parliament of Mbowe - NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-Revolutions - James Mbatia, so they will leave their positions or they will be expelled.
Five, I heard of conflicts in those two parties which at the end, they will fall into a six and six months, I've identified himself ,-Wazalendo party to come to be the main opposition party.
Until now the total results will be announced, the overall winner will not be careful.
And that is why we are saying if we see me, they have great hopes in the elections that is taking place in the same environment which every time they are unable to read again, the expectations that will have a conclusion of different articles.
Therefore, I have written this article, the Electoral Commission has not officially announced all the results, it is good to continue to write a lot, and look for other issues related to this election.
But a teaser that is not enough, Ukawa through their international adviser, Joe Jolamu, are criticized for their great efforts to build a picture outside Tanzania that situation is not well in the elections and though I believe their rights of constitutional to complain about the mistakes that arose, but not in a way that can cause violence.
Recently, Dar es Salaam, an advisor of the political issues in America, made a false pictures on Twitter network claiming that it was played during the violence that continues in Zanzibar. However, that picture was played during the violence that continues here in Zanzibar. However, that picture was played during the violence that continues here in Zanzibar. However, that picture was played during the violence that continues here in Zanzibar.
In their union, prevent us from Twitter, they joined to face the adviser and start a penalty in the evening this Monday when we read this article but I have written this article but I have written this article as he has been unable to apologize for that offense.
