
Religious leaders know who are public servants.
And Mary Lugusi.
Close to each person can cause a difficult state, but if you want to resolve the habit of a person, by the authority, "these words that was stated when one of the former President of America, Abraham Malunde.
The philosophy of this famous president should understand especially in our country where the real picture of the leaders arise when they be buried.
The case of last week, one of the leaders of Geology, Moses Wiwa has said he was preparing the journey to his fellow passengers of the South African Airways for a period of three hours after three hours.
When you're very close to that, Honorable Lowassa claimed to have given poor vision to the organization for what he mentioned as "action of mocking him, considering that he was just following the regulations of that organization whereby every passengers is expected to present his national identification card before being unable to travel.
Mister Boers got it as it was expected by many, he involved the incident and the efforts to fight the opposition.
Before yesterday is that after realizing his identity cards, Honorable I did not hesitate to present his medical card, five cards for various banks and public transport cards which have been sent away by requesting the former deputy chief justice, Nancy Kaizilege presenting a point of stealing a resident who was doing his own work.
In addition, we believe that we have forgotten the answer to the answer, "your name 'Siri ya Mtungi' from another leader with a politician, Mister Kalamboka when he refused to answer a question from other communities to see him without doubt that the answer would come out to eliminate the hatred of any leader.
It is a must that Kenyans have been forced to prevent it causing a loss of vehicles of vehicles due to the existence of vehicles for honorable ambassadors while they are supposed to arrive at their homes in the morning or return to their homes after long days.
The Kenyans are tired of the leaders that improve the colonial era of liberal which are a shame for this country's leaders to know that they are public servants who should be able to use their positions to serve the citizens who had kidnapped the authorities, and therefore the law is not supposed to use the people depending on the basis of the class.
