
DC Muheza wants the education officer, the head of the schools have been arrested.

It has been written by Samson Chacha, Tarime.

I was published today 14th October, 2016.

The District Commissioner of Tarime, Mara Province, Glynwood Hospital waving to the police to arrest the education officer of Tarime District Council, George Oguda and the head of Tarime Secondary School, Esther Matiko, on suspicion of lack of 21,052,500 students.

Those funds are out of 400 million shillings they received for compensation for primary school fees without payments while having the names of 546 students who are alleged to have many students instead of low students 176 million.
He made that order yesterday during the session that he did in Tarime secondary school accompanied by his defense and security committee.
That District Commissioner has said that starting from January this year up to September, the Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government (Tamisemi) through education without payments, a total of Sh. 67,888 trillion shillings for the purpose of serving students.
According to Luoga, every student is used to pay 70,000 tons every month and in that school there are legal students per higher education, which they were required to use 49,253 households in that period of nine months.
"I got information and follow up after getting my people and discovered that the availability of ghost students from higher education and increasing the number of 546 students and increasing the number of 51,0546 students.
"I urge you the head of the police station following the accused of these suspects here, the District Education Officer, George Oguda and the head of school, George Simbachawene, and the head of primary and primary schools so as to get accurate information and statistics of their students and the money they will be used by the government," explained the District Commissioner.
Those suspects, George Simbachawene, who tried to defending himself that the money made it received without explanations of the use including fees for students without payments, a special offer and food money, but the district commissioner was in charge with their explanations while considering that there is big theft of public property.
