
ATE, Nelson Mandela giving an opportunity in the new university of agriculture.

It has been written by Hillary Clinton.

It has been published today September 2016.

Tanzanians have been advised to use opportunities that are available in the new agricultural college of Bexhill, which has been built on support of Korea, so as to get more expertise about agriculture.

Speaking at the opening ceremony of the college which has been built through a donation of Wikipedia community in the Kigamboni district in Dar es Salaam city, the Deputy Minister of Agriculture Livestock and Fisheries, William Ole Nasha, said the construction of the university for agriculture and fruits is a great opportunity that will enable the number of officers at the stadium.
"This is an opportunity for the residents of Kigamboni, Dar es Salaam and Tanzania, we want them to make sure we increase many experts in the agricultural sector of fruits and vegetables," said Ole Nasha, said there are more agricultural professionals in the agricultural sector of fruits and fruits, "said Ole Nasha, said there are more agricultural professionals in the agricultural sector of fruits and fruits," said Ole Nasha, said there are more agricultural professionals in the agricultural sector of fruits and fruits, "said Ole Nasha, said there are more agricultural professionals in the agricultural sector of fruits and fruits," said Ole Nasha, said there are more agricultural experts in the agricultural and fruits sector, "said Ole Nasha.
He said the country needs officers at 20,000 shillings but who are the half of that number, therefore he believes that the university has come to the right time to solve that challenge.
The university's head that is in Mwasumilwe in the new district of Kigamboni, Joseph Omog, said that it will help to produce officers at the most areas of vegetables and fruits.
Apart from providing training to students, it will also give training to the villagers of that area about the farming.
He said that they have talked with the leadership of Mkamba Primary School, which gave 10 hectares of land that will be used as a class to students who will be reading through that university and also to the villagers to learn.
He said that joining the university it is free because all the costs have been paid by donors who mentioned the cost as food, accommodation, and studies and added that a student will be required to pay training for actions.
