
That were affected by poison that happened in Dodoma, Manyara.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

The government has said that it continues to conduct an evaluation and distributing food to households, affected by bad poison that are affected in the provinces of Dodoma and Manyara, where up to now 17 people have lost their lives due to eating food with bad poison.

The deputy minister of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Doctor Hamisi Kigwangalla has said this today in Dar es Salaam city when he was opening a meeting organized by Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), that brought together various stakeholders with an aim of discussing and discussing on the research that took place about those poison and how to controlling it.
"65 people were affected by eating foods with poison when they lost their lives, the others said those people had died because they lost their lives, but the research done has revealed that several factors associated with each other," said Doctor Kigola.
He has said that as a result of that problem, the government has taken various emergency measures including providing treatment to the victims and taking the samples of districts that were affected together with the neighboring provinces for research, whereby they have noted that various items that were affected by other provinces.
Doctor Kigola has said poison that were seen is a big problem, which cause cancer in the neighborhood and deaths and it's supposed to be looked into keenly and it has been caused by fungus to be caused by fungus.
He said more education is needed for the community on how to avoid conflicts with poison so that they can be affecting the markets especially the small businesses conducted outside the country.
In addition, he said that he has made the national executive committee of producing poison that will involve various stakeholders from his ministry together with agriculture, livestock, and fisheries, industry, trade, and investment, the Sokoine universities and Nelson Mandela who are sponsored by TFDA for the aim of controlling the poison.
Earlier, the Executive Director of TFDA, Hiiti Sillo said that the authority has continued to improve its laboratory services and research so as to deal with dangerous poison.
However, he requested the government to increase the energy and set aside budget in that committee which for the first year is needed more than 452 billion shillings for the purpose of implementation.
The ambassador of Belgium in the country, Paul Kayanda, said that they will bring together cooperation together so as to get a solution to the community problems in dealing with dangerous poison.
