Tanzania is going on.
Breaking a good and a good day?
Just try to get words.
For our purpose?
Ras Kiduku was born.
They are different who we get in your period when I got into the same time, I will know many people but there are my servant also there are my servant also, Doris Mollel has organized for a total of few people but there were my servant also, Doris Mollel has organized himself to look for a lot of people when I think there were my servant also, Doris Mollel who had already stopped.
On the pastor brought down or an eye of her.
I don't talk about the behavior of Tanzanians.
Tanzanians in your behavior which have been the behavior contrary to positive and bad luck.
For reasons that do not like love, Tanzanians should not be people in court, but there is a time that Tanzanians has helped them the love you have helped them until they do not know!
Every day as a small side, you know that Simba's team or Yanga know you know that it does not want the nation to put seven days or talk about how I believe in a mind, there is a team even a mind that supports the love for love.
It doesn't give you a person and how it comes from joy?
It's taking the place.
If he is known, everyone has been buried and it was playing for that job then you will go.
Ambassador Seif looking for one day of the fans that all Tanzanians will follow up in order for you to protect yourself in order for you to use it so that they can't miss.
I did not put him, he confessed that there is a problem like this in the world having an illusion.
Johnson Festus Mengele said everything on a day was scored every time when a person knows it is so bad to think about what he is going on at it, even how he is seen.
Say I have done research on.
I have noticed that the government is made a lot of things.
So as' Imebaki Story.'
You are still a little little.
For many men, those who will take them but not that two governments they get in which there is no bad things that are good and that we can say what Tanzanians want to know if Tanzanians want to know if you love you.
Say you came back and then when you see you.
The late Almighty God says that you are good in bad luck, he says that the bad luck is, the late does not talk about why you want.
Why in this government, I know that it has caused the road from the province up to the province that unites them.
All of us, the young man is still a lot of several years, when you come to Kibondo here and there is still a must, but some of them have talked to who and who is the supervisor of the roads to prevent them.
The government is planning Barnaba, shows that by a sober mind and one with a sober mind and that they can be able to do our party we are going on well in carrying the bridge present.
Everyone is going on.
