
A girl, 17, who received the peace award.
By Lucy Lameck.

The wedding took place in Washington, he placed a history as a young man of more than to receive the Nobel Prize for his efforts to defend the education of a female child especially in his country of Pakistan, where a man of Taliban has done a attacks that will suppress women, girls and women.
A Kenyan deceased has been fined and once received that award in the year 2004 with his efforts to save the environment.
Malassy, met with the danger of his activities of defending the children's education, when they met with the group in October two years ago.
However, when he stopped his skill after he survived, the incident of being shot by Taliban militants, has helped him to write a book, to start a long time together with getting opportunities of addressing the United Nations and also the World Bank, efforts that warned him to receive that award for peace.
In one of the interview with the television station, after the injured being injured, Maluja giving him that her father is looking for helping other girls because he had given those efforts to urge all the education to all.
And even after being informed that Taliban had been forced to prevent it because of his efforts, he did not hesitate to continue before the incident at the end.
A group of Taliban militants in Russia has continued to complete girls' schools, while their colleagues who are born and Afghanistan have been running poison attacks to school, all that aims to break the heart of girls to go to school.
At the end of 17 years, he has made history since he is more than more than to receive that award for more than to receive the award during the opening ceremony of a new season of Birmingham City in England last year.
However, that girl is seen as a person who doesn't have a dangerous group of Taliban.
While receiving his award, he identified himself about the attempt to be transferred to Taliban militants in the year 2012.
At that time he explains that he was 14 years old, people who had a gun got into the bus when he was heading to school, causing a gun to sign a bullet in the attempt to buy a bullet.
I was having two things that I would be able to do, one was unable to do, and to wait and wait and then left the second, and decided to increase, "he explained.
However, after that incident a woman claimed to have come up on big issue that were unable to attain the world is his courage especially in her small age.
The terrorists is trying to drive out man, "he said, but their ideas or votes were not able to win.
We hurt them and since that day, our voice have continued to increase more and more, "he quoted saying when he received that award.
I am delighted to you that when you get not because it is a unique thing, this is a story of many girls today, I think it means their shame and also I have protested in some of my sister from Pakistan, Nigeria and Syria who also understand this situation.
"This award is not my award as it is for the children that were forgotten, those who want education.
Karlander added that children with fear who want peace is for children who do not have the voice who want to change. I'm in defending their rights and disturb them.
It is not at the time of Plasmodium falciparum. "Malmo, received that award as well as a activist of India Pindani Nyalile and 60 is also.
However, there will be able to come out his efforts to Malampaka Ward in Pakistan includes the area that was held in one school in December this year that caused the deaths of more than 145 of the countries which equals to school children.
