3 minutes, the victory of 3 wards, they are at home?
28th of 13, 2014.

There are many things spoken since the announcement of election results of the councilor seat in 27 wards and the victory of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in three wards of Kibuko ward (Moshi), Somalani (Arusha) and Njombe town.
We will continue looking at, to listen and receive every type of criticism that will be used in different ways, although I believe in CHADEMA, a lot of income should not be done for the future of our future.
One of the issues spoken by CHADEMA opponents as the attempt to unite in special special operation of CHADEMA, popularly known as 4Cellphone Company (OPD) and especially in a chopper (third) and the victory of three wards of CHADEMA.
Participating in those things, on the back to do the analysis or evaluation of those two things is or not when he did not see the other (the one he also did, in an important issue or decided to know it, with an easy way or not to know only.
While the national chairperson of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe is launching the 4Cedars-Amoah, the intention of the special operation to be careful, in front of the following topics which is caused by bad leadership and policies of the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
For those who follow keenly, many know how it has brought a big debate in those issues, from the new constitution, local and the use of resources and difficulty of life.
The National Electoral Commission (NEC), is forced to announce that the government has given money to improve the voters' book just to say that, the senior leaders, chairman Mbowe and the secretary general of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa's statement to give a full report on several issues.
Those things include the full list of the activity, when NEC will start to inspect the stations, on the official start of the exercise, the government has given a budget to which way it is enough for a very important activities like that?
Because M4C) which was in the whole country, your areas in the election where the chopper was praised, but contributed to the use of three medals and results of the victory in three wards after forcing a point that it cannot be.
The CHADEMA's opposition is pumped by his joy (joy) of victory without doubt, they are unable to see for several issues, an example that was done in the 2010 elections and they were unable to see it, "there is success?

So, your changes seem to be with the movement of change?
CHADEMA will focus on that because it is very important in the issue to protect democracy of people and celebrating victory, especially a legal victory.
For example, in Njombe County in the year 2010, CHADEMA did not stop the running mate of parliamentary and parliamentary candidate of CHADEMA, he continued keenly to be the presidential candidate of CCM.
The councilor's results in that ward on the councilor's elections show that CHADEMA has got 2,300 votes, a total of 3,334 votes were more than that, a total of 41 points, CCM won only one station for nine votes.
There are many examples of this way in the recently general elections, there are areas that CHADEMA never put a high competition and there are areas where last elections there were a huge difference of votes, but this journey has been reduced to a large extent.
For example, Mpumalanga county, Mtera, Dodoma province, the year 2010, CHADEMA got 602 votes with CCM 6 votes but this year, CHADEMA has won 555 votes.
By CCM 872.
In Swaya Ward, the year 2010, CCM passed without being arrested by the recent election, CCM got 6,173,433 votes while CHADEMA got 6,173,433 votes while CHADEMA got 6,173,433 votes, three votes were destroyed.
One of the primary issues that we expected to marry a lot of people, especially those who are in power is this question and where your votes are there?
This issue has been given priority by CHADEMA together with the love of democracy and many other development in the country, after the results of the general elections of the year 2010.
Those who are in power we have run that they are able to appreciate the process of democracy of representation, which is why it is to respect people or voters, never would have been rushing into results, again that do not give them legal action.
