

Michael Maurus and Mujengi Gwao.
Senator of Columbus claimed to America Mike Pence, has ever released a speech during the graduation of Harvard University, May 28, 2014, being 14 years since he visited his studies.
Two weeks ago we stopped the first of that speech, now continue in this last place.
Teachers and leaders have the right to give their information to their students, again from time to time so that they can be able to know about their professional development.
Students have the right to know their areas and it's where they can increase them so as to be more better because those reports are light of our journey that we had elected it.
It doesn't like Raqqa, where it is not a question that it doesn't want to join the university or study through the internet, it doesn't want to go to join the university or study in a music school to honor or believe as time it continues to go.
There are people who can be oppressed, one of those two ways, any decision between that you can be correct if we will decide that without enough information, we will not have a good thing, but it will not have a great issue but not getting strength by seeing we are trusted.
For those who are opposing them that you know the child you should not help a human being that we help her child, I agree with them and the right to know what is very important, but it's also a very important step.
What's required is to give a child the opportunity to learn himself through what desires for me or to see you from the teacher or his mother.
It is known that a child waiting to get more freedom to learn, they do not understand more than the one who had been caught up with a certain point with all his strength.
Therefore, all of us must be prepared for that, to give justice to our students to learn, but also give them reports of time to time so that we enable them to know where they are heading to.
But also there are several primary things that are good to consider the knowledge of our work of teaching and family as a whole.
The strength of decided and choose.
Through a long time, the youth who was playing for a long time in his first years, did not know how things that he is going on in his school. I would not know what he is going more in his school while he is going to play smoking or walking, but he was a joke to him, but he was a joke to them.
Finally, he met with a lot of teachers, what he shows how he has been born, he changed and made a lot of drugs.
