This Kilwa road has never been done on the testing of plots and payment of compensation to citizens, a situation that resulted to the existence of many land conflicts due to people invading the areas like the law against the law.
Following the existence of that problem for a long time now the fund on bail was conducted in Kilwa district for the purpose of starting the testing exercise for plots and construction as well as well as the district having a lot of resources you know for our poor reporter.
The late?
Councilors together with leaders of the villages in Kilwa district council as they get training to build their ability on good governance and investment issues and how to plan the strategies to promote those strategies is together with the aim of starting the inspection exercise for plots and construction of infrastructure.
It could have caused you to know two hundred thousand because it's because it's impossible but if he tries to do a decision in their home to be paid to irrigate the first time after a person needs an environment to claim that it is happy that you can't know what is possible.
Ahenkora has is the executive director of the district council while.
For your time you are with some of the areas.
.
The exercise was done.
There were reports that you have.
For example, I would like to be an important thing to cross the market.
I have decided to do.
Most of us lose people.
The results got if they benefit from plots.
On their part, some of the leaders also added that action and requested the exercise of testing for plots to happen quickly so as to bring economic and social benefits to start there.
What has brought you know here in Dodoma.
It will be vegetables which does it be given to a plot, here is true then today if the goal is, so as to benefit from the market.
Now if you know that if you see Sunday is true?
The Kilwa district council is expecting to test six thousand plots in Kilwa Masoko in the areas of Kilwa Masoko in the country.
It is good to report from Kilwa here in the province, Mary we have a bull.
I commend the news.
