The City Council of Nairobi has been used by violence that their food shortages in business so as to focus on selling their products contrary to the law.
The writer of South America, Hasheem Mkingie has said that approximately 118 people were expelled from being disturbed by the police officers in Nairobi.
The capital city of Kenya is a residence of approximately three hundred thousand tons in many times more they have no permits.
The business permits in Nairobi are saying that one is starting from one hundred thousand dollars to one thousand, being it better for a small scale.
If it is alternative for the Swahili language, it has set aside areas where fruit vendors can sell their products every day and pay a fee of one million dollars.
There then in an alternative market there is a lot of poverty more than the opportunity and congestion that are involved in selling their products contrary to the local law and I am saying the only way can save life and help his family to sell their products.
One if I am not wrong.
Peter's.
They can download it more than five?
News about it after that.
And we see that.
Owned up life than going to take the Libyan army to do the work there as a youth.
Before you are to do the work of paying or recently.
There is a result of a officer from the communist party from Nairobi, says this means of attack is violence that are not affected by some of them?
He will be left behind.
.
Because they face other market commission every time, they are using bottles when the children do not lie!
Therefore, there is a place until you are using and Bahati.
Despite that in America, I have tried to communicate with the Nairobi municipality but they were not able to give an official explanation on those accusations that were given out by their human rights commission in Kenya, Kenneth Kaunda for the one that was scored four years ago it is currently in the disease.
While complaining, his chairperson, Nicrox, was speaking with the voice that he has talked and said that before the release of the Ambassador, 'Imebaki Story.'
I need to partner.
Some of the inspection that was done by the council of tree for these people and tons are claiming that they violated high level within the legal structure, it shows that non-scale farmers reach up to the level we will stop and even visit people.
The late Adam I have listed more than twenty complaints from food shortages in one year alone and has presented three cases to the court that concern them from Kenya's development projects that are estimated to contribute to approximately five percent of employment in Kenya until now they did not eat with five percent of employment in Kenya.
