
The parliament to control the permanent employment in the government, has given a permanent registration to the employment of the government to depend on their efforts.

The Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania will work major changes to the public service by removing permanent employment in the government, so as to enable the required changes by President Doctor John Magufuli.

In those changes, the current employment system will not be changed and instead be permanent for the employment of employee who will depend on efforts and efforts to work at work, so as to eliminate the laziness that lasted for many years for many years in the public sector.

Speaking at the end of the private sector and the Citizen newspaper, Dodoma, at the end of last week, the speaker of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, Job Ndugai, said some of the laws of work that make some of the public servants to be lazy.

"For example in the current government, a very big worker at the same time even the minister gets a very long time, that is a very long time, that's a very long time, because our country must change," said Speaker Ndugai.

"In the countries that are continuing to be very fast, something that is not sure that it is employment, you do not have good jobs and to do your employment so that I am happy because I am happy because I am happy because I am happy because I am doing so as to stop at work," he added.

He added that other changes that President Magufuli had sent it as a result of the law of purchase and other laws that make the government to work well according to Ndugai, the parliament will ensure those laws have to change quickly.

"That is our cooperation which will give them but we will also contribute well in the plans and next budget we shall increase well, to reduce all the money for eating carbohydrates, this year and to put the purchase of vehicles every year and the offices are among those who are in the whole country," he said.

Speaking about that step, the President of the Federation of Workers of Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TUCTA), Gratian Mukoba said he cannot support him or reject the motion until when he saw the motion itself with his details.

"As usual this bill will start to start the first to stakeholders, if we will see, it is not everything in terms, law will be taken because why it have been supported and good information we will discuss its implementation, we will decide," he said.

When he was asked about the trend of some of the public servants to work hard and if the law can treat that problem, he confessed the existence of that situation among the public servants but he will identify that treatment is not to remove permanent employment.

"There are many reasons that cause some of the workers that lazy workers are not a permanent employment but if you are in your country, you have decided to fight for payments, one that will be paid 30 times more than another, that is paid to you to have the morale of work.

"The one who is looking for 30 times he will be affected by this performance and it is a lot because they will do (they are not little) and the government will do not be shaken," said Mukoba.

He postponed that August 1970 and 1980, people were sure of permanent employment but they were working hard because there was a right ratio at the payment of fees, different from now, therefore, he also advised the issue to drop the morale of work among the public servants in the country to be careful.
