
Registration of players have been able to bring productivity.
Signing up registration of players for the Tanzania Mainland Premier League and the first level league has been officially opened this week according to the Tanzania Football Federation.
The game that was opened today June 15 will be played on August 6 in the first stage, where the clubs that are participating in the Mainland Premier League will be expected to announce his players who finished contracts.
On August 7 to 14, it will be a period to present his objection and given a decision on August 15-16, will be the day to confirm the registration of the first step of the registration will start on August 17 until September 7, seven days for the decision will start on September 8 to 14 days.
At the end of celebration, there is a reason that those clubs have a chance to increase or reduce their players who have been playing for those clubs.
We believe this exercise will be used to enable the club to increase and fill in the buildings in their squads which have shown.
We are taking this opportunity to urge all clubs including those of the premier league, to leave you for signing up players with an aim of making himself or amusing the fans or leaders.
We give an order to our club to be careful with this registration which has been happening at another time without considering the needs, advice from coaches and people from the technical bench, "we said this because it has been successful, especially because the club's responsibility is an expert in that department but by bad luck here in the country.
On the other side, we are urging players who are followed by fans or the rich with the aim of being signed by the club, it must be careful because they are not supposed to have coaches, but they be players of fans only or people with money in the concerned club.
We thank all our clubs including small and small businesses, instead of losing time and money for many players who do not be used, to invest in mind and human resources that will be used for a whole season, something that is a loss of money.
We believe that our club instead of using money to register many players including those who don't have benefits, they would enable them to invest in few players that have no benefit and the same time to attract others, especially youth because of a few years in front.
By bad luck, most of our clubs have a sustainable plans for many years to come, follow it more on players who will be used for one season, who were left back.
We ask you to ask our big and small club to make sure that his secretary will be the head coach or his assistant, which carries the responsibility to ensure they get players according to the needs, it's not good for the purpose of fulfilling the number.
We believe that our clubs having plans to promote their players their players themselves, after two or three years, they will evade a lot of time to register new players every season including foreign players, who some of them have no more income.
