Mandela, Mkapa said that they could have died.
October 16, 2014.

The father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, concluded his last day in shock arising from the last actions of people who he believes, his fellow citizens are told.
Sometimes we reach 15 years since the death of the teacher at the St Thomas hospital in London City, England in the year 1999, new reports have emerged about the way he used his last day.
In an interview with this newspaper, together with his fellow newspaper of citizens of Tanzania that have been done by people who were close to him including his family and people who were working with them, two major things have been explained to remind Teacher.
Those things are the small contribution of the government of Tanzania and South Africa to its institution of Mwalimu Nyerere Fund (ACTL) and Dixon Busagaga of the Central Bank of Business (NBC).
One of the leaders of the union, who speaking with Raia Mwema, on conditions of not being mentioned by the name, said the teacher entered so much when he went to South Africa to look for money for that institution and to come up a very little contribution.
"When Nelson Mandela being the president of South Africa, Teacher went to look for money in the country having a lot of hope, you know that Tanzania found a lot for the purpose of Uhuru of South Africa.
"South Africa has a great ability to grow and the teacher was very big because of the relationship between these two countries, where he went to the government presented a sum of 60,000 dollars (approximately 60 million shillings at that time).
"I think about the economic ability of South Africa and the contribution that the teacher and Tanzania in general they were with them in the nation and then a teacher is more than 60,000 dollars," said the leader.
That leader explained that on the side of the government of Tanzania, the only donation is a plot at the neighborhood and Karimjee hall in Dar es Salaam that was issued during the government of President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, and did not have ever received any money from the government until today.
"Let me think about his new government of Tanzania did not give you a one hour for the purpose of President Benjamin Mkapa not to give him something that I know the government of Jakaya Kikwete has also been able to contribute to know if he is the problem," said the leader.
As a result of that situation, the leader told Mwalimu Nyerere saying that one year before his death, "day I dies.
Mke Mwema has been told how close relatives of the teacher was announced and the truth that in Mandela's book of Ambassador Manongi has been mentioned just after the book.
This newspaper depends on that, in the book, Mandela admitted the teacher while explaining about his activities of looking for support by African countries in the fight against discrimination, where visited Tanganyika free to be supported.
At the time of administration of the Boers of South Africa, it was banned in public the name Nyerere or Tanzania because it was seen as incitement, but also Boers wanted to prevent Nyerere's arrest by few people from there.
"Know, in the administration of Mkapa's administration and we know that they were not the teacher, Mkapa may make sure that it could be a teacher, Mkapa may be able to contribute something," said the source of this newspaper.
In other interview with the sister newspaper of this newspaper, citizens of Tanzania passed the former deputy secretary of the Teacher Samuel Dyamo, it was also a way the teacher had been touched by the issue of being sold to NBC in one of the companies from South Africa.
"But the biggest one I will remember it is about the process of being involved in the NBC Bank in the year 1997 to April during the administration Mkapa, where the teacher had resolved to the bank sold by Apex Group of South Africa.
