
The government has a plot to wed.
It has been common for all nations in the world to use the excuse of dealing with terrorism and to strengthen the security.
America for example used the terror attack on September 11, 2001, for human rights in many areas in the world, to arrest people and try to arrest people without closing them to court.
Here in Kenya, after the increase of a terrorist attack especially from Al-Shabaab, the government seems to follow the same way.
Even when closing the organizations it has set aside a new constitution that made them a lot of time and put a good democratic system.
First, it has been advising him for the safety of the security that makes a lot of rights which could be given a lot of time to arrest and rebuking the suspects in terrorism and the crime that is claimed to endanger the security of the nation.
Furthermore, media stations are selling the throat and they will not have the freedom to decide what will go through the readers, viewers and listeners.
The wave of that disease is unstable, the government through the board of non-governmental organizations has banned more than 500 organizations which has claimed to have attained the laws given.
And as it was expected, the excuse of the security was used here, while 15 organizations were alleged to be used by terrorism.
It is a surprising thing that this board has been there but it's only one day where he decided that these organizations are good for the same time.
The answer is only one.
That a lot of these organizations are close to the opposition and also organizations for defending social rights that have been allocated to the government every time.
The government has not reported that many youths will get employment.
By analysts and all these events in details, that is taking place after President Kenyatta said to be removed from the court of ICC, an indication that his full reputation they go up to now.
The main reason to bring the security in every issue that supports the citizens usually, that no one wants to go or even being affected.
This makes the Chinese citizens to be striped of their rights.
We have heard many saying it is a happy that the government has a great life of terrorism and even you cannot fulfill all what we said through phones, this project can be safe.
I give you more information to you.
