I want to look for Ramadhan mother and her child.
Here is it?
It is that a patient was found.
It is taking them to use my way to say that there is there.
In calmness, because it is a person who is near the hospital the procedure that I will look for more than five hours up to that, there is still a lot of time when you see the doctor in the past until when it was found even though the past was found even when I was found and it will continue with water.
There is an importance of using a good system of giving it ready for reasons.
You know doing so to see keys.
A big vehicle.
Being unable to go back, this is the driver that having a memory was that there is no group or a person of medicine?
So that he can talk with Mister and teachers.
Therefore it did not betray it.
What happened this month in the second month, a woman has a member of parliament among them let me look for me because he saw the Lord in Mwananyamala when I went to Mwanza town, we are waiting to come up to you and also to provide information that is important because of the law.
In who is alleged to have an average of their family is good because it is difficult for them to work because together with being the rich to study themselves because the rich and different challenges is that the way other products are still unknown.
From therefore, we request that they will stop and therefore inside the computer plane.
Our disappearance you know.
We need from every part of the government to give them free so that it gives a little something to those who do that.
Or they want to know that Adam becomes a good way even if you get a new song, when I think even if there was a new song when I think even if it was in Germany, I think it was found but the doctor can call him.
.
I promised to give him anything done to ensure that the problem made him in general but through the system, we will remember that the council will involve in the picture and I use it.
They will do everything good and the challenge of its challenges is together and it is possible that they finish good work that is why I was not aware if you are not aware of the news to you.
You will get a good thing but you feel.
People are not found.
These women continue with the topic of votes from let me look for the name of someone by using it for a child.
Anywhere, the costs have been taught together with my grandfather, she has said.
.
That will be prepared as there are other challenges in I am saying that there will not be that the doctor's service at the number of seven people who missed him, but there is a probability to carry the doctors to carry out, where there is a probability to carry the doctors to prevent him, to implement it.
