
The conditions of looking for pregnancy is normal.
And Mary Lugusi.
The news conditions that the BDF of Twitter was quoted being received in different ways among people.
This is because this happening took place a few days after, to be completed in the activities of registration of police, which brought out various opinions while some people wanted it to understand.
Many feel that the requirements will be taken so as to enable the citizens to protect yourself, join the police services which have been outdated, and do not related to anything and the implementation of the police work.
It is something sad, that in this century where we are ready to be free due to chains, we can be able to promote and continue the habit not getting rid of the colonial era.
It is clear that though we are trying to protect themselves from the colonialist, a painful truth is that the colonialist is still administration and not to be buried.
Otherwise, I don't know how we can explain how the registration activities is continued whereby in a long time, it has been like a chance of humiliating students, it has been forced to kill him and decide to join the security department.
It is in the era of the colonialists where Africans were chosen as livestock to be sold if they will be sent in Europe countries.
You have been sent from Africa, they are required to have a certain amount, health care and with strength, so as to serve them in great farms and working with a sharp teeth.
Every time you help people get a new way to implement crime, a good example is the crime that is being implemented in the internet and the electronic systems, which has become the main challenge.
In the days we believe in the development of technology and globalization, it is dangerous to say that the requirements of joining the police services for instance, the color of teeth, shape and etc, have been called on time.
The perpetrator went to the police, having no time to inspect how to protect themselves.
It is important to the police to be good health so as to be able to perform a hard work to deal with criminals as well as to run away.
However, in the days we are living now, it is clear that the police need more than strength.
They need education, creativity and skills.
