Efforts of manslaughter.
Mose 21, 2014.

The chairperson of the commission on constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba has set the efforts that got used to collect recommendations about the structure of three governments inside the union, despite those recommendations that were given by several commission after research.
While presenting the draft of the new constitution, Judge Warioba said those recommendations are of the ones that were given by the commission of Judge Francis Nyalile and Judge Robert Kachumu.
Commission of Judge Bomani.
He said among the recommendations about the three governments not to be done include the commission of the former chief justice, Francis Nyalile.
He said Judge Warioba "in the year 1991, the commission of Judge Damian Lubuva has ordered three government structure, although the proposal did not come up, Zanzibar decided to use the national flag with their logo and later it will start using the national flag with the label of Zanzibar.
Movement of Jay Z in Zanzibar with ORCC.
Judge Warioba said in the year 1992, Zanzibar joined the Islamic State House (OIC) and the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania passed the stadium.
He said the constituent assembly was required to cooperate in looking for a solution to the problem and other problems of the union and to give information to parliament in a period of one year.
A series of flowers.
He said in the year 1993, during the meeting of the budget of the budget on the side of the United Republic of Tanzania, members of parliament from Tanzania Mainland (G) came out to parliament the argument of the establishment of the Tanganyika government and that issue was prepared.
He said in November in the year 1993, a special session of CCM and all the two governments took place in Dodoma so as to find an agreement on the court of parliament and that the appropriate time was to be discussed if the Tanganyika government gets the creation.
"In the year 1994, the executive council of CCM passed a declaration about the need to continue with a two-government structure with an aim of reaching one government structure," he said.
He said after the commission of Judge Damian Lubuva, the government made a committee of Shishiyu Ward, including delegates from all the two governments and the government of Zanzibar to make sure the executive committee, Amina Salum Ali.
"The committee of Shangazi has stated all the issues of the union and to give recommendations at the implementation of the implementation, but also gave recommendations of some issues to be removed from the list of foreign affairs for example, port.
"On the other side, Amina Salehe, together with other things, it urged 12 issues to be released on a list of foreign affairs and those issues are facing the economy.

In the year 1994, all the two governments met to think about recommendations of the committee of Shangani region.
"Together with other important things, you followed you to change some of the issues in the list of foreign affairs," said Warioba.
He said because the debate on the structure of the union was going on at all time, the government accepted its wisdom to form the committee of Judge Kisanga saying that together with other things, it was unable to select the type of structure of unity and the committee of Kisanga explaining a three-government structure.
"The proposal did not agree on the appropriate time of the year 1994, among all the two governments, continued to be implemented without making changes in the constitution," he said.
