After being allowed to be a speaker of the parliament, Professor Samuel Sitta has officially announced to stop politics and be a reporter.

For the first time since the executive committee of CCM asked the presidential candidate, Samuel Sitta, who was the speaker of the ninth parliament, yesterday put open his future, he has decided to retire from politics.

Sitta led to success in the ninth parliament to an extent of making him be given easily by the chairperson of the Constitutional Assembly and therefore for making it a name among the members of CCM, an extent of registering him in the presidential race and later wanted to go back to lead the constitutional parliament.

But he did not succeed to vie for the presidency or vying for parliament, which he promised that he would leave Turkey as he was found even in court.

But yesterday he had a different statement.

"The political issues are now then," said Sitta was asked and about his future plans after not been sacked by CCM to vie for parliament.

Sitta, who has joined various ministries, said that for now they are looking at the writing of books and that for its age, it has come at his time to rest and give advice on various issues to those who need his contribution.

On November 15, the executive committee of CCM has thrown out Sitta and the others who came out to vie for Tanzania parliament and instead he has appointed three names because of being voted for by CCM members of parliament, Job Ndugai as the speaker.

The resignation of Sitta was his second blow in the position after being arrested by that session in 2010 when he was vying for his position.

Sitta did his reputation when he was a speaker of the ninth parliament from the year 2005 to 2010, after joining the various debates against the government and the scandal of Richmond Development that made Edward Lowassa to resign as the prime minister.

After going to step.

When he was asked if he will not involved with what after retiring from Sitta, who was also the chairperson of the special constitutional parliament said, "I am just at home where we are doing so they should give advice when I ask you to listen."

He said that for now, he is writing the articles which he will put in his book that will explain the state of country and history of different issues.

"I think this is my personal view, it's how I am happy with my eyes," he said.

When he was asked if he will not hesitate to lead the ministry if President John Magufuli will be appointed as the member of parliament and then the minister said, let me talk about something that has no direction. "

However, he said on his opinion polls, he can't make it involved in that council.

Dealing with parliament.

About the scandal, speaker, Sitta said he had been forced to court to oppose him because it's just the process of that party to be done without following procedures and people to be bullied.

In his talks with Radio Uhuru FM during the process of trustees, Sitta said that due to the political situation as it was revealed more during elections, members of parliament are youths and it is clear that the speaker is required is a experience.

He said despite that there are some who tried to convince him to vie for that position again, instead he should give an advice when there is need, he insisted that he has a call to serve the citizens in that way.

"When I said (I will go to court) if you have not been appointed by CCM to vie for a parliament I request if you will happen such as summoning demons.

"If you start in 2010, it was brought the criterion to the" speaker, "that is what I met and I didn't accept it, that was not there and remember that the issue is not a person," said Sitta.
