
The security of your child at the time of emergency.
As a parent, health and security of your child is forced to pay a priority. Every day you are ensuring that the river K will make it well, when you are enough, drinking water and has the time to play.
Most of the children like to play and discovered a new things, and sometimes we want to try things that can be the health of the tapes on shifting from here and there is normal and for children, it is not true that the child broke down is small in the activities of playing.
But an emergency going on well to ensure that the child can be very fast and it's possible even if you are far?
Most of the special time coming from it is not easy to see for important reports and therefore it is good to write important information about the health of your child especially if you can help doctors to make decisions especially during an emergency information, especially if there is a history of health problems especially if there is a history of health problems.
There are drugs that you affected us because they do not leave that report and also some of the children are affected by a certain kind of drugs because the drugs that are affecting your child so as to avoid the use of those drugs later.
The cyst are supposed to be very delicious with the problems of blocking the list of the things associated with your eyes, can help the doctors or guardians to know what you concerns him, the child is using any drugs for now?
It is important to increase this information together with tests, time for the use of drugs and the reason for allowing the drugs, this week will help doctors to know the medicine for giving your child.
Other information is also prepared to put records for the vaccination which your child has already received such acts, try to follow up on the doctor and don't like to put up the age, weight and the type of blood for your child.
If your child is not very little, you can collaborate with this reports so that he can have the knowledge of this important information and when you are doing so, why do you do your information and also your child can help you so as to help you one day.
In the opinion and advice, the congratulations to the phone number 116, which is special for the child services in the country, this service will not give payments from all social networks in the country and this service will not give payments through our Facebook page of SEMA Tanzania through Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.
