
It has been published, why should you miss this year.

Africa has every reason to inform the investors.

One of the things that hit the presidential candidates in America is a promise to restore industries and break the business contracts that contributes to lack of employment to many youths in that country.
By succeeding to kill a lot of youths not only to those who do not have employment but also to a little income, they were able to complain to that step of the primaries and lack of politics within and outside that nation.
I am talking about when in that meeting above and not more than the Republican Donald Trump, who already has prepared himself the ticket of representing the Republican Party in the presidential elections that will take place in November this year together with Benard Hopkins, Democratic Party.
Sanders, despite his age of 71 years, although he has missed the ticket for vying for the presidency, he got success by collecting millions of millions of youths and therefore they got it fast and allowed him to represent Democratic Party.
Well, they did not have a chance to be a threat to Trump for example that he has built many enemies among the different groups of voters in that country because of his parliamentary statements, Sanders, who has emerged victorious.
But their ability to build a motion together with the attraction to do their differences in the purpose of the process of the primaries, it continues to increase the followers especially due to their standings, including that of promised to return the American industries for the interests of the nation and Americans.
All the two have condemned the current administration and the past, together with other things, he will be able to protect or get into business contracts because the industries continues to travel especially Asia.
They have one view that those contracts has caused a huge shortage of employment in that country while the country has increased the availability of foreign products especially from China.
In that primary school, those two are similar to the defending champions while other opposition candidates while other opposition candidates were uncountable "friends of big business people who are looking for their own benefits without caring for the nation at a broad way.
If you follow up with these politics, which is not the actual problem of this article and without monitoring or comparing the benefits or losses to the nation when he decided to go to a hole, it is an appropriate truth to invest here especially in the small cost of operations that are producing great benefits.
For that reason, many big investors from America are looking for more stories especially in Africa due to various reasons including the market and small costs of operation.
It is a great cost to run a factory in America compared to Asia especially when it comes to the issue of payment of salaries for that reason, so as to get great benefits after removing the costs of investors from Asia.
For instance, for another part the investors address them and make their products like the electronic systems in America, but after that they are going to be connected to China.
All of it's aimed to fulfill those products it's good, to make sure that the quality of its quality is recognized as a result of high technology that is in the United States, but also because of enabling the great benefits they get to reduce the cost and therefore making great benefits.
