The court of disease and politics.
APR of September, 2015.

The Tanzania High Court started a long time but the current debate of the court started after the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, announced that the bill of starting the court's court had been presented at the parliament session that ended recently.
However, that situation led the council of bishops led one day later and urged the religious leaders to register themselves in large numbers to the permanent voters' register, to read the proposed constitution and come out to refusing it to vote 'no'.
The statement has been released under the privacy of the Christians festival has mentioned two reasons for its decision to be a bill of the court to comply with the basis of the nation to have a government without religion as a result of opinion polls to cause violence.
His Eminence Polycarp Cardinal Pengo, has raised more the debate when he came out with the statement of bishops who wanted the Christian people to vote 'no' the constitution has contributed, an issue that had caused Bishop Josephat Gwajima to kill him so as to kill him.
Several events that were given the government to put its decision to submit the bill of solar eclipse.
The symptoms of the situation was clear in the seminar that was organized for the members of parliament to discuss the bill, where some members of parliament wanted the government to reduce the bill, while others have complained.
According to various reports, the members of parliament did not accept the same time they identified himself and even discourage each other.
It should be remembered that the bill on establishment of the Court of Huria Tanzania was removed from the last parliament meeting before this month of March where they believe that it had a lot of discussions so that the government has been forced to remove them.
Among the people who this debate has place in a difficult time is President Jakaya Kikwete and the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda who has been giving the intention to vie for presidency by his boss, later this year.
As a Muslim, President Jakaya Kikwete found himself in a difficult time when the Christian religious leaders have shown not to be unable to listen or believe in his defense of the media bill.
This situation without doubt has been discovered because many Christians have been believing that the Kikwete administration has come to Muslims.
For this reason, together with Kikwete explaining that the government will not start or put in the court's court but it is intending to make laws to identify and control its activities, the council of bishops has been holding his position to oppose that bill.
It should be remembered that, the previous claims by Muslims was the government to change and be shaken the court's court after discussions in the government led it is not correct for the government to start, running and run their fees for them.
On his part, Mizengo Pinda has been accused of giving bribes by the promise of the court of Mount Meru during the time of passing the constitutional parliament and that they intend to leave that bill, there are political goals to be supported in his efforts to vie for the presidency.
At the time it is going on, Muslims see the court of this disease it is their rights and Muslims claim that our court does not concern them, considering that even among Muslims, they are not allowed to take their issues there.
All Muslims of Tanzania who are many affected by the number of Muslims in Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda, have been trying to see that those countries have been causing any discomfort to the government and Christians of those countries and asking them for what is not Tanzania?
However, the processes of Muslims claim to have reduced, as a result of the conflict between Muslims themselves and the big offence they made in the Supreme Council of Muslims Tanzania (Bakwata), can browse on the power of running the Tanzania High Court without involving other institutions.
Bakwata, there could have been a good court in the world easily as they expected "a good intention" for the government to now, where the strength of parliament is supposed to inform you, that it's only possible.
All of all, the important things I have learned from this tension is, first of the court, it doesn't be dealt with because it will produce a lot of politics from all Muslims and Christians.
