
Yanga is in Mkwajuni.
Dar es Salaam, the goals of Simon Msuva and Anthony Mtaka were enough to give Yanga soccer club in his journey to play in the group stages of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) against Deportivo.
In the game that was played at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam, Yanga came to get numerous positions while at the goals of Donald Ngoma and Thabani Kamusoko was seen open.
Yanga got a goal in the 73 minute, after Msuva scored by his head entering the home of Geoffrey Adroph when he arrived at the field shortly in the first half while he entered the field to take the position of Deus Kaseke who had gone to play for his second goal in the 90th minute through a distance of 25 meters.
Yanga did not start the game being scored by Amissi Tambwe, Msuva, and Malimi Busungu on the stage of attacks and agreed to get a lot of positions after the defender Juma Abdul lacked the position in the fifth minute of the game after his shot was executed by a bomb attack.
Mid-fielder Haruna Niyonzima has removed the position and Kamusoko got the position of 40 minutes after his shot from outside.
Coach Pluijm made changes to Charlize Theron and his positions were taken by Mjengwablog, then Telela and entered Mbuyu Twite.
Karlander said that he did changes in selling of Roach, Juan Da Prince Turner and Antonio Da Prince, and their positions were taken to them, Paul Ciara and Estonia Manuel Pellegrini.
The statement of Coach Pluijm found himself with the victory, saying that the match was difficult and he will not tolerate any results, instead he will increase exercises for its players so that they do well in the repeat game in the coming days.
The stars of Yanga, Deogratius Munishi 'Dada', "Juma Abdul, Upendo Nkone, Kelvin Yaida, Salum Telela, Salum Telela, Simon Msuva, Amissi Tambwe, Amissi Tambwe, Amissi Tambwe.
Namo Jumatatu wakuu wa kampuni za simu na mawakala wao walionywa kuwa huenda wakakamatwa kwa makosa ya uhalifu na mawakala wao walionywa kuwa huenda wakakamatwa kwa makosa ya uhalifu na kukosa kusajili kadi za wateja wao.
