Close to my country's contribution, you want to make sure I talk about our topics which says that what should be done by coach which is celebrated after his death.
That I would like to contribute to it that come out of many people with a heart like our children to start different stations so as to promote talents especially in football and sports games and other another thing is that.
The sponsors are there.
You cannot cooperate with those players and they will also give a great contribution.
This so as to promote football.
You should talk with.
The price in different stations.
We see that many youths are going out to play, but you ask you.
Most of them who don't have the ability to live in the streets or other parts, but if we get that, they do not support him here, but if they are playing football, it is good for I want to say.
In your view.
Close to him.
The death of a party.
A very big one to our nation?
Even in our province of Mwanza.
And the success he has that he will be.
Things are.
First of that milk that they have made us to support him.
If you look at the Mwanza province there is no few stakeholders even if you check the province of Mwanza Academy as well as two of water and many, but if you know what I don't know it and she told me, there is a big difference here in the youth, and also they are playing.
Everything in the country as a nation we have to look for a head coach but they tried to use a good picture if these people are using a long time together with the whole region of Mwanza, a girl that does not be presented in the area.
Similarly, the talents in the beginning to look for many talents the reason when they collided with female children and children.
Now, it has to be a stadium, including those who are in the valleys and every one thing is why we are looking for us to be a good reason if you are not when most of us we start doing money and five.
You have also been killed but if you have no education.
If the woman is, but it was a very good player, but at the end of the day, we will give them well even if you get the opportunity, we will give them well even if you get a long time, we will give them well even if you pay as a lot of food that they have done with them.
