Your news, Tanzanians have been informing each other a lot about a lot, a very big margin in the parts of these areas, don't jump, I was pleased with my colleague who cared for some of the leaders as well as talents and pay the debt to the way.
Truly, we have been a lot of time that, as usual they discuss each other compelling the first claims today we have not said here we expect where it's just after caring about it, and after the second after.
Those who request for money for a renovation did not see.
I don't know the father's reason I get to you but still we have not started officially, we shall go back again.
Before what happened?
There was claims.
Our brother's topic will do changes in the parties.
What changes are in the blood of people.
They have gotten tired with the bank.
.
There are no loss of fees that we have said among them.
In the economy of economy and so, it is good.
Change in order to ensure we help them.
In a way of faith, what concern do you want to do, you cannot change the drivers.
I am looking for me.
You missed him in history.
And he put on behalf of the issues and put it on those stakeholders why I am me.
We have had a situation that we don't know if this party has or what is the ones.
Because we see the one of the verses.
Where we were we.
We were trying to blame from public property, we also fear the responsibility is not to fulfill our responsibilities and we cannot stop faith in the Tanzanian who she is ready to go and ready to go and already.
Any way to go and serve.
In a long time, by removing meat, it doesn't cause a person, for a person who will be open from Tukuyu, the preparations have told me if the poor children like the ones they were surprised and that it's impossible because I think it was a foolish thing.
The sun is known as when he is not independent, he warned them that here is a problem when maybe we believe it's not good because I believe it should not be careful, but I believe it should not be careful, but if I believe it is true that we do not want to be careful, but I believe it should be true that we do not like what we believe in.
We don't change you, but there is one changes together with five years others, we have said that these things have said that we are able to identify our lives with Simba but believe it without someone who will not accept to be careful.
We want to make changes but changes we want to do we are not the same time we want them, maybe you can bring change if you want to bring change and register themselves in the basis of the resolution and as usual we would like to cooperate with our leaders.
