The murder of their wedding is in South Africa.
May 08, 2014.

On the 18th of January, the former police commander of South Africa, Sipho Makhabane, said that investigators in that case they know why he is killed by one police officer of the top position, Lieutenant Colonel Mike Barsheba I was sent to England to deal with the rules of murder.
That order was not to be held on January 20, where the investigation police had given an evidence against the rules and regulations as the court accepted the request of his country to enable the rules to relocate to the country in that country.
On January 20, a day that the law will be able to go to court to listen to his case, but he did not arrived with his lawyer claimed that he has been admitted to the hospital receiving treatment from suffering from ideas.
From there, the case was postponed for time after time due to the health condition of the law and not being restored.
On September 28th, 2011, after the case was planned for approximately nine months, the Minister of Internal Affairs of the United Kingdom, similarity between Theresa May, has signed certificates of requesting the rules to compete for at the Old Trafford stadium in South Africa to answer the charges of murder.
However, the rules to rule, he used to appeal to oppose that order and March 30th, in the year 2012 the High Court in that country changed the implementation of that order.
The end of the implementation of the order resulting from the health condition of the rules and regulations, who was still suffering from illegal immigrants and his condition was not restored.
The day of March 30th, 2012, the judge of the England High Court, Sir John Thomas said that, it will not be better for returning to the rules of Deilee to South Africa in a situation that he is doing.
July 24, 2013, Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court, Howard Humphrey Kiwelu, gave a judgment that proposed to the rules of Deilee to South Africa for the purpose of dealing with charges of allegations of being involved in the killing of his wife, Deuogratius Mushi.
However, his team of lawyers who were vying for that was the legal day to appeal that it will be through that judgment according to the appeal against that court's decision.
But March 2, this year (2014), the rules of Deuogratius Mushi made the attempt to appeal against his wife, but his appeal was stopped apart from the court and therefore he was given out 28 days to be taken to South Africa in order to deal with the charges.
In South Africa, many media stations were being affected by this case since it was discovered to the body of Antwerpen.
Many tourism companies managed a huge amount to receiving visitors and tourists they were given permission about the increase in killings in that country by a level of 46 deaths in a day.
This case is not a solution and up to today, it does not have the legal authority of these two countries, that is South Africa and England.
In England, it is believed that together with other things, the reason for the rules and Deuogratius Mushi to plan the killing of his wife, Aniva who is due to his behavior of love women to get to an amount.
After that judgment that led to an appeal, the 36 days later on the rules, Debwa, finally they were transported to the plane to be taken to South Africa, to answer the charges of being involved in the killing of his wife Ansudane Soulaimane.
It was on Tuesday, April 8, 2014, to the rules, Deuogratius Mushi being transported to a special jets to run away by the South African government and he arrived in the morning, accompanied by one doctor, Nesi of South Africa and another police officer.
While wearing a black suit and a black bikini, a black bikini, while in a black bikini with a black bikini, when he was in a black bikini with a bomb attacks, was taken directly to Cape Town High Court, at 11 o'clock Tanzanian shillings.
While sitting in peace in court, Judge John Hovind, told me that he will be under security when he will be at Mkunde's hospital who was asked by the judge if he was told, the rules and Deuogratius Mushi for a short time, "he is."
The prosecution in the case they had agreed to be held in his case up to May 12, 2014, the spokesperson of the prosecution in that hospital, we believe that doctors will give information about her health and that report is that which will enable them to make decisions about continuing with his case. "
