It has not said that the opposition parties of Ukawa should allow CHADEMA to get a victory for controlling the team can't get a period.
Buoys.
Few things will get because their big policies are I have.
You can't understand the basis of their good policies.
They are doing meetings in town.
Speaking about the election of government in the neighborhood of this year and a very big desire is not the side of Ukawa CHADEMA, a huge conflict, we promise to cooperate with the citizens to bring development to our nation, but we promise to cooperate so as to bring development to the public, but we promise to cooperate so as to bring development to the party members and we promise them to ensure that all the members of Ukawa are ready for you.
Because many are many youths who are their husbands?
First by requesting him to vote.
Meetings but those who do not lie?
On the side of, many of them were going, because of helping the party.
And the big possibility of the radio in the party is because I stopped the reputation of their father's father.
I thank you.
He cannot leave because you know where we finish with those words.
And the others that when you start such as it will be hard to protect themselves from those who were in the first time, it has been identified, it was very difficult.
A boxer from citizens because he was walking.
It is impossible.
To go to this chairperson, I will be happy that it will be difficult for him to destroy the commission of justice and I think I am happy and to hear the citizens so that we can be able to reduce the problems of citizens.
If you look at the health issues if you were three percent but up to now, the best player was able to give me more shillings if the player is expected to buy, but I was in the water sector where we decided to take.
But at that well, I use this time I get married which does not affect the water they are believed.
Dealing with water there is no other time and there is no one who didn't ask you and therefore we have you ask you and so we see the girl and other roads, the road was not a life and so we need to build the road in a period of this period.
Something that I have found?
It gets a heavy rains in front.
There are vocational training that is together with being the other teams (they are not in the picture) to be taken to the Kimara areas, the part of a bonus for him.
I have been out of conflicts inside.
He is a basketball candidate and CHADEMA.
Now CHADEMA and the training were forced to Ukawa but there was a conflict of who to stop today, I am written.
Everyone has the right to stand now when it will happen again?
The eyes came as a union of those parties that have already agreed to join together but now there is no longer a word of being called Ukawa to shouldn't be patient even to stop the one that is in CHADEMA.
They have stopped their presidential candidate, you will give you a presidential candidate for now not to not mention the current citizens, we will learn what about their behavior of Ukawa.
Because he has told us that it is a panel of parties that are involved with the ruling party in the opinion.
If it's and if you are the ones that we want to create the local government we have already completed the division we know that in the general elections how will be like that the local government will not accept.
And there are Ukawa have been late so much by selling.
Their campaigns through the citizens like what I feel it has maintained the Zamalek, his party like that, different from their union now seems to have conflicts.
Their leaders and still to go together with me of the ruling party, we do my partner to encourage people to register themselves in large numbers more than many youths still not register themselves in numbers to be in the newspapers so as to be easily available in the areas of using any time.
In parliament, the ruling party will also be known as the ruling party when I will be with the ruling party in all days because they are given any child with any child and it is still in Dar es Salaam coming from here for us to know if we will take the burden for all these things are at the end of the citizen.
This you believe that we see we give a fake plans we can get that citizens problems like this, that ruling party also continues with them.
In events you can't get a great victory by depending on his life, you do not know that she is not a man or not what I don't know if I don't know what we don't know what we are not seen.
Take care of Europe for every month and they give a close day every month.
We will take Mathayo Torongei some of their wives to make sure that they get out of three children, already the members and who are looking for him are voters.
Writing, you know that many who registered themselves are people more than not their opponents.
For those who are.
Just try to buy water but a win that they will be able to kill them and protect Malawi, they will be taken against them under the government in a few local government.
