The committee has not noticed that corruption in the city of Arusha.
Seasons Hotel, 2016.

The report of the small committee of the council of councilors of Arusha town that was set up to investigate the legality of the revenue authority in that city for a period of five years ago has discovered a lot of loss of 843,57,433,90,010,00 Tanzanian shillings.

That committee was created as part of implementing the stadium of the council of councilors in his session of May 7, this year and given a letter on 1 / 11 / 11 / 1000 in June 16.

The committee was led by his chairman, Emanueli Imane, who is the councilor for Human Rights Center (UVCCM), and he met the report the other day before the delegates of the council of councilors of Arusha City Council.

Other delegates of that committee are together with Zakaria Mollel, loans in Coco Beach, Amani Kichama district, Ricky Moenchengladbach due to their work led by the experts of Arusha City Council who are Kessy Sakali.

Together with the loss of that amount, the committee has also identified himself in that report as the directors of the city concerned to increase revenue by partnering with various obstacles that were given revenue collection.

In that report, aron Nanyaro mentioned the seven companies that have been given the tender to collect income of the council from different sources in the year 2010 / 2013 followed by debts amounting to 890,6711,010,00 Tanzanian shillings contrary to the law and destruction of corruption.

Companies which are forced to pay those debts in information have been mentioned to be Mkonga (T) LTD companies (161 trillion shillings) which were collecting taxes to small-scale farmers (T) Limited (161 trillion shillings) that had been given the tender to collect tax for vehicles.

Other companies are M / S (236,00 Tanzanian shillings) that was collecting taxes in the Kilombero market, Jamaatul-28,010,00 Tanzanian shillings (27,43,000,00 Tanzanian shillings) and New Generation Network Limited (27,43,000,00 Tanzanian shillings).
"The committee revealed that the biggest laziness that was done by the workers of the council from the step of giving the tender to the implementation of the contracts of those laws," said aron Nanyaro, said that the committee has revealed openly that it caused the laziness of the growth of the councils of the council because it seems that servants used to put first interests instead of the public. "

He said the committee has also revealed a huge weaknesses in the department of law in that city for failing to be responsible, as required, in the preparation and management of contracts or by preventing themselves because of carelessness, contracts that had been done with sections of achieving the City Council of Arusha.

"The council got a loss of losing its revenue, how the office for the rules and the management of the contracts is clear that the lawyer had a close relationship with the agents (it by it by using its profession involved in making different environment for sabotaging the council's income," said the chairperson.

According to the chairperson, his committee also revealed that the presence of bribery cases in the process of revenue collection and removed from those debts, and that the whole system is caused by conflict of interests.
"Councilors and servants of the council are the owners of the big number of shops and thus making the work of collecting revenue and tax to be difficult, to members of various committees of the council of councilors, in that time that made up of bribery they were affected by bribery," he said.

That committee has proposed that due to a huge environment that caused the discovery of the debts, the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (UDART), to make investigation and legal action to be taken against the servants and they make them.

"Because all servants including the director general, treasurer, treasurer and the experts who were in that time have already come to another place, communication that are being done so that disciplinary action should be taken against them because of carelessness and failing to advise the council and causing losses to the council of councilors.

Aron Nanyaro, in his report he urged the council to ensure contracts, especially the collection of revenue has become a section that makes the procedures, when the crisis being done before the case being taken to court.

Also, they have proposed that all the companies that were involved in which essentially have never been directed to do business with the council (Black Americans) and the owners of those companies also to be allowed again to work with that council.
