The opponents have a difficult position in the fifth term.
Dec 80, 2015.

Being in the opposition camp it was a very easy job during the third term government than how it will be in the fifth term government before getting into power to the government, departments, government institutions, public organizations, government agents and so on.
But it's not only that you have worked with the bad luck I met in government, but also leaders of the fourth term, Jakaya Kikwete who is being left to rule by leadership Doctor Magufuli said that he was not recognized by the leadership of President Doctor Magufuli, who was to support him, instead of reviewing him, instead of reviewing him, instead of removing them.
Now, Tanzania has been an important station for drug trafficking as well as the neighborhoods if we are playing with a lot, they are playing for each other, they are playing with the stomach, another to be arrested in abroad, and so on.
Caused by the smuggling of natural resources in the country for example, statistics have continued to show that elephants have reduced very fast, in the new census whose results were made in last year (2014), the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism announced the number of elephants with 66 percent compared to the census that was done in the year 2009.
Corruption that do not like to talk like that scandal had a lot of words that the opposition was suffering a big one, while many small others that are mentioned to be left recently.
Every year, the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) has been presenting a lot of motorbikes, including the collection of taxes, embezzlement, and there is no stern action of example that has been taken.
Therefore in the past phase, especially of Kikwete, the opposition was only a big scandal that we have tried and got many followers who are annoyed so that many people are annoyed so that many citizens do not tire us.
I don't understand by saying that it was the first phase, it has been built through events of theft and corruption, ideology and policies.
Explore our leaders who have fallen in the opposition, it's those who had a heavy scandal, and even last long in politics will depend on how to act this scandal.
Look at how corruption made the profile of Doctor Willibrod Slaa who was surprised by mentioning the list of corruption when the late Yanga, David Kafulila and Zitto Kabwe got well in the Escrow scandal.
However, Augustino Mrema when he was the chairperson of the NCCR-Revolutions Party in the year 1995, he was received very well by mentioning the evil deeds that the government of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi.
President of the fifth term, Doctor John Magufuli has decided to destroy the theft, embezzlement of bribery, corruption, fruits and other efforts are seen and it is clear that some of the government officials to abandon their success.
With the speed of his intention, it does not be afraid that Doctor Magufuli will leave his government without informing them and give their opponents the opportunity to say. Even the citizens believe that Doctor Magufuli is doing well more than the end of their expectations to the opposition, if he would have been selected.
Now if the corruption scandal that will be controlled and when they come up to stern measures against them and the opposition can help them?
Ideology and policies.
This is the time of the opposition parties to focus on research of ideology and political policies, economic and social responsibility so as to enable the government in the country, otherwise there are some of the parties thus losing attraction.
Unfortunately, it is that during the last election campaigns, we did not hear a lot about ideology and party policies, big issues that were built on the quality of this leader against the one and the former party trend of the concerned parties (good example of CCM).
In this, we saw the ACT-Maendeleo party in which we have seen since, was started using a research and be able to come up with their political ideology that had been separated in the area of Tabora, which has a foundation of policies of that party.
