
The illegal fishing is not covered by God?

It has been written by Shadrack Sagna.

It has been published by 2 percent of November.

Retired president, Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal has warned that the illegal fishing being done by fishermen in the northern areas of the Indian Ocean is increasing its disappearance to the attempt to make it, an issue that has great environmental impacts on the country.

While giving a rally in the environment and climate change which was organized by Mwalimu Nyerere of the University of Dar es Salaam, Doctor Bilal said the action of running illegal fishing could destroy the economy and have a great importance in the beaches and other creatures of the sea.
Doctor Bilal said that if the quick action will be taken to control illegal fishing using dynamite, big environmental disaster which will arise and therefore, affecting the economic and development activities, because of the moment they have a great profit in those fields.
In his public, Doctor Bilal said that the environment for now is due to many people wanting to use revenue sources and destruction of environment, therefore, he said there is need for all stakeholders to unite people to stop the effects of the environment.
I call on all the citizens to be attentive to advice and environmental experts, we should not make a precaution to maintain the environment of future generations, "said Doctor Bilal and insisted that the illegal fishing is growing fish, but also affect the lives of people whose economy is available in the sea.
In his speech, the deputy president of the retired president wanted to be shown the existence of trees so as to do that there is a threat of trees that causes the speed of water catchment areas of land, he insisted that the existence of a problem in the country since it was causing floods and cooking oil in the southern highland regions.
That five day conference will involve participants from different countries who work on how Africa can deal with the effects of changes in the country, that conference was held recently by the Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan who wanted the citizens to stop the acts of destruction of the environment.
