
On Monday, October 6, 2014.

That gender violence 'can be destroyed.

Women are looking for right to be equal to men, and they have succeeded in this article we are trying to show a dangerous relationship with men and although it is true that we are fighting for men and women so that we can be enough for women and women so that they stop having men.
The completion of the project to be completed in the purpose of improving the construction of the reserve, to set aside the completion of the budget to be completed in the completion of the budget to be completed in the completion of the course of completion.
I have talked to the readers that like to study everything in one article.
Sithink that you have been possible to do that following the weight that was done by relationship, instead, I believe by talking about one issue, little, the issue after another, I would be able to meet in many issues that we put in order to discuss on this period.

Similarly, I thank you for the good response that I got since the previous years started.
I have found a very good thing to have ever done since I start blogging.
It was looking for you, about my readers, most of my readers also involved their experience in singing and therefore giving me a good opportunity to learn again and I thank you so much.

At the same time, we can say that the best relationship is the outcome of the loved ones to pay the cost of knowing and to answer the needs of his fellow artists who is not ready to understand and address the needs of a youth who is not ready to enter into relationship.

In today's article, I will start discussing the way that I have promised, the reasons for the people that are going to move ahead and eventually get unable to communicate as required, a situation that is a bridge of conflicts involved in the market.

Work of gender 'in marriage does not lie?

The first reason is what is understood by the concept of 'gender equality', I know the danger of talking to the whole issue like gender, a bad view.
I will request that you used to be patient, it is maturity and any thoughts that you like in calmness and with an aim of understanding anything done and then decision to prevent or passport.

The activities of gender discrimination is aiming to succeed as the community has changed and eventually now many women are going on different schools and if it was in the past.

However, this concept of 'gender equality' is causing losses when pregnant women associated with men or a woman, whom she started believing that 'is equal to a man, but even the security and life of his marriage.
I will explain.

In the era of 'the women, most of the women did not have education, they were people to sit at home because the big responsibilities of the woman was to build a family because of looking for children, the husband together with putting a house environment in a situation that was witnessed by many female men.

It's a man, who basically the community went on, he is the one who had the responsibility of looking for every day and he is the one who had the responsibility to ensure her family is wrong, smoking, woman is guardian of the children and many Swahili that we understood.

In addition to the problems of that system in charge, the system also enabled a man to get the song 'honor' which we agreed with the foundation stone of a normal man and he also did a man to make him feel ',' professionalism ', and so as' my heart '.

A woman who is responsible, is supposed to be responsible at home for all the time, he placed a hard environment of sending him 'an old man, when he went to home with her husband, her children and neighbors.

Although it is true that there are elders who love other women, that was traditional and when it was done, it needs certain problems, but at least there were certain expectations of gender that made things are well in marriage and came keenly to overlap.

The expectations of women and men have been found.

Currently, it is true that 'development has enabled us to land for sure who is supposed to do what is a woman and he is expecting to do what is like a woman and he is in the same time so as to be known as a woman' with their own responsibilities.

Now, it is true that this woman does not have a same as a man, she desires to return home and to meet all his responsibilities, she desires to return home because her husband wants her husband to sit down with a woman whom she desires to get married by a woman whom she desires.

The man's results seems to be a woman at home, when she wishes for a woman to be as a man at work, can make him do a woman not yet to make sure that she does not lie without a man, she has not ready to change to women in home environment.

In order to solve this problem, sometimes it has given many girls to be availed to these girls, who are not affected in the environment that with all houses are 'men' and therefore, that is the only women in the house.
Those congratulations to children, get all clothes at all times when they are doing close to everything.
The man begins that, with the responsibilities of 'a woman', who is now known as' the only woman 'in a house, a situation that makes him a real woman to see the difference which he had injuries.

Gender of gender is not knowing.

Gender equality of this environment makes men to stop its direction and without knowing what they found you need to get married, a wife who did not know her duties as' traditional ', a situation that builds hope for a man who is doing well as a man.

These are the ones that are involved in the hearts of the loved ones, and therefore as the source of each other to reduce the habit of looking for him and to answer the needs of his colleague, this is happening, it is easy to others like the ignorance, and even divergence.

In this environment of equality and the rights of women, maybe it is good for women to recognize that gender violence does not know if the gender and women with this is because it is safe for women to recognize their differences and men with feelings (black spectacles).

Although it is true we are competing for opportunities of opportunities, schools, work and so on, we should be supposed to recognize that the men have changed the women and women in addition, we should realize that the men's needs do not affect the women's needs.

At the time we are ensuring that the women get the same way with men, maybe it is time to recognize that in the marriage, the way for gender discrimination is not working, and when it comes up, its results are not very happy.

We need 'to go through'?
Maybe we need changes to procedures and let us start with the first step of knowing different types of gender so that it can continue to reduce their son on the excuse of gender development '.

Likewise, it is good for men to understand that, it is good for the best way for a woman than it was for their father's mother of 'gender equality', they have a lot of time to work while at work they are able to return to the origin of their gender.
It is good to understand their needs in this environment and help them to understand that they are facing.

Otherwise, these days the pictures have been made by the new bishop of poor problems involved in the world.
Let me know and to work early, you can reduce problems in most of some people, we will look through it and how you do not be dealt with and how you can be dealt with.

The foundation of today's motion is being constructed by using the name of John Gray, the author of the book 'Waja Spirs and Venant Para'.

Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
