
Difficult life has changed to be the pillar.
A difficult environment in the streets of stalls have changed to be the pillar and high risks of the music profession.
Kelvin Kemm and has been one of the artists popularly known as' ambassadors' dance hall in the country.
This is as a result of its own kind especially Dela, in which he featured Ommy Dimpoz, a is going to lead in the charts of entertainment during that song, is wanting to be read to one girl how she does not lie.
"I started working on the songs in the year 2007, though I'm in the year 2010 when I started recording new songs to start doing music as work," he said.
Until now, I have been able to record several album that he did not go with him, some types of votes which have been self-shirts that his fans are "Suraegypti ',' Pindani Nyalile and many other stars.
Facebook for its appearance is that they are usually looking for him from the right.
"In a long-inch width, I have witnessed all the difficulty of those who have witnessed in every day they get their lives in every day so that I was not ready to resolve the world about the difficulty that we are facing a life of life," said Lutara, who is a resident of Lungwani Market.
This message gives the call in the song 'Siri ya Mtungi', in details to the lives of those streets and efforts to register their lives.
Luten went to school in Kibaoni Primary School, he from Nairobi city, before joining the University of Jomo Kenyatta (Jichunge.'
For a four-inch width, his music artist has been faced with a dance hall artist and Reggae music from other small miners, Bob Marley among others.
And by considering the statement of 'not forget, where there was a result of several artists, where they have started the foundation stone of recognizing and growing their talents in the areas where some of those artists are such as top C-Square, Kisangani region of many artists.
It has said that this matter due to the mockery that was done where I do not lie on the evil thing, the Quran and good Samaritans.
"We went through a very difficult state to arrive where we are others in the city because of the efforts of many for the medical camp, after knowing our talents it's because they join together with continuing the strategies to be among the youths," he said.
Regarding the direction of entertainment in the country, he is accused that many artists do not identify their songs well.
"The most important thing that was recorded these days is to prevent people to keep in mind the message," he said.
Moreover, he is determined to do collaborations with artists in nations.
Read or annamatinde @ gmail.
