
Sexually transmitted diseases.

Faith in us.
You are not us again, I hope that you are the whole health, we are continuing and we are going on and today we should like the coming of the and other diseases that are known.
Examples of vegetables (HIV) Escrow account.
I wish the disease that attacked the system of honor, he knows it is caused by the type of bacteria and it affects the weather.
Symptoms are there.
- went on the forehead and Mchuchuma is the head being filled with water.
It is very happy, to vote and give the commissioners.
It does not change the color of Upanga in his soul?
It does not lie to a problem of masturbation.
- they are lack of desire to eat and reduce the cost of buying 10 percent.
- making a rumor of a black person, especially if there are other infections of parasites.
The deaths of deaths are not a lot and patients missed after 2-3 weeks.
Treatment and risks.
- drug abuse is known as a minibus, Onderstepoort city and will be used in water for a period of 7 days.
The cleaning of the environment and equipment for the hen.
- the importation of chicken to be infected or big chickens in mind the chicken they don't have.
The vaccination is there and it came out two times after 3 days at the age of 416, the vaccination will be given.
Without doubt, I hope that I cannot know well this disease, the symptoms of his body and requested we to do together and see another disease that is known.
Holy Rosary (COS / S).
This is this disease of food system meaning you're very delicious with the stage in the language, it will be caused by parasites which is getting more on chicken to get inside.
Symptoms are there.
- celebrating the blood.
A light and stop laying.
If you know more, especially when they are in the group or groups to prevent and treat if they collect them as usual.
Treatment and risks.
What is the type of medicine led it as Mchaga answered me.
The cleanliness of the environment and inside.
- there is 970,089, a chicken feeds in Chemistry and pit latrines.
I don't know me, there was not the end from the end of these diseases and I will also understand what we have not seen, they do not hesitate to use opinions, medical services.
We should meet again at the next time.
