Kitilya Mpolo in the Lake Region have been cut off.

It has been written by Bashir Nkoromo, Longido.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

Kitilya Mpolo in the tourism industry that is owned by Proin Promotion Company Limited (WWS) that is in the Lake Region, has asked the concerned parties to request to remove equipment in the area.

The Kitanzini ward was set up the day before yesterday in Longido district, Arusha province under the management of the traffic force in the northern region (Mount Meru).
Speaking on the phone the day before yesterday, the councilor of Kitogo county, Timotheo Mwakifulefule said the camp has been placed as a result of the involved in that company not to show any real situation of the courts in that area although the former head of Arusha Province, Felix Ntibenda arrived at the area to see the real state of the conflict between that company and the company that was given to fight for now by Green Themi Institute (MAGM).
In that session, Ntibenda wants to listen to all the two sides and said that the government is what they decided to invest in an ancient attack in Lake Victoria, and the citizens can't prevent you but they are supposed to prevent it, but the investor who was given to know you are involved with what they are involved.
But the councilor said that it is true that the mountain has planned to be taken because they are legal where the concerned authorities have decided to break the title so as to remain and be one acre of Green Initiative 'that is owned by a citizen from BADEA.
Some of the citizens of the Kitonga camp who live in that camp, Lucas Lukuwi and Nico Mwaibale said the villagers have no way to compete with the government as previously they had agreed with an investor to continue to sit up to August 15 which is the end of a contract with land in Arafa village.
Longido District Commissioner, Daniel Chongolo speaking about the issue, he confessed that it is true that the camp is set aside by considering the regulations and law.
"Camp is broken in accordance with the laws that are in my work is to supervise the implementation," said Chongolo.
The step of having that camp was as a result of the conflict between those two companies that came from the step of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism and Electrical WS who are running a fight to fight for tourism in the tournament since the year 1990, to leave the match against May 31, this year.
The cause of the conflict is to be productive to the names of the park without following the procedures given by the law and that action was done by the few procedures without being announced in the government's newspaper like legal procedures when he wanted.
