
Food is a big problem in Kenya.
By Carolyne Ekyarisiima.
The rise of life of life is the big problem that affects many Kenyans, the research of the Ipinda Tanzania organization, do not know it.
Even though they take a high cost about life that a problem has reduced up to 38 percent from 50 percent in the month of February, who were interviewed they said in the area he sees far.
Those opinions for the Kenyans have been given despite President Uhuru Kenyatta to sign the law that could be taxed for food products.
Security is the second problem with 17 percent in Christianity, the employment system is third and corruption is the fourth problem.
Compared to three months ago, it is only seven percent of the Kenyans who were worried about the security situation, now it is 17 percent but it may benefit from the attacks that have been witnessed in the country in a few days ago.
Lack of employment (13 percent), corruption (10 percent) and bad leadership (7 percent), and a list of five major problems that are dain.
The research that was done between April 28 and May 7 caused 2,059 people who are 18 years of age and more, towns and farms.
"Things have not changed so much and even so, if we go to our research after attacks last year, lack of security could be number one," said Doctor Tom Wanzagi, (in the picture), the analysts of the research in the Ipinda company that performed that research.
Last Sunday, seven people were killed by more than 70 others being injured in rains aimed at least passengers buses in Nairobi city and Mombasa.
Those attacks were read while the government presented a special operation of security for the name of security.
The operation is aiming to arrest the illegal immigrants especially from Somalia, who have been criticized by the government to run a series of attacks in the country.
However, that operation has caused rumors that it aims at people of Somangila county in the country.
Non-communicable diseases are saying that they drew in the country from the neighboring country of Somalia, where Kenya's army (Kwelukilwa) is in the country to help arrest the terrorists.
This has driven Al-Shabaab to swear with Kenya revenge and making the others wanting the army to be transferred to them in the country.
Opinion polls of yesterday claim that they are divided into their assessment about the presence of Kvitova in Somalia.
While explaining Doctor Wikipedia, there are 56 percent say there is a probability of a terrorist attack to continue Kenya, 49 percent feel Al-Shabaab will be unable to see the possibility is very high.
That came out is that many citizens (44 percent compared to 40 out of the views contrary to the current government at the same time, despite the lack of security that the main issue is only a few Kenyans who want to be the cause of crime.
He said 93 percent of those who did not have reduced the crime of crime in the past three months, compared to seven percent, "explained Doctor Maasais.
The big number of having reduced, 20 percent are determined by the western area contrary to the previous ones who were in Pwani province, in Nyanza and North East areas that have been built more than 2 percent each.
?
