At a very fast speed by the Selous National park on the area they are criminals with great joy.
Without the delay of attacking and moving forward.
The fights are still ongoing.
Finally, one of the criminals have tried to try the nation's resources with the desire to start using the national resources is hard by the police who gave them for the purpose of finishing for them and Jane Matinde.
It is difficult to believe that those were exhibition.
Those police will be fast or be known as Kim was making their competence in fighting with the killing of the American ambassador in the entire African continent for your support to improve the network of the areas they intend to prevent it from the fact that the biggest challenge of corruption in the country is lifted.
He put him a big activity done by the government through the National Parks Agency, TANAPA and other stakeholders in developing the phone.
The minister for resources and tourism, Honorable Lazaro Nyalandu, says the government of President Jakaya Kikwete is determined to save the south east of tourism, but I request Tanzanians to know the government of the doctor Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete to be finished by using those involved in the internal area.
We will increase efforts in protecting the elephants and arrest of poachers we will be saying that there is there to continue being in this area but also in writing other things that we will not give a gift to them.
Tourism and sustainable development.
All Tanzanians are very happy and that can I be found to thank Somalia in America.
And if in their cooperation which they have done the project to succeed in Santa, are important to know the truth is a high-level training and they don't want to see and put it a problem even.
So much and we are happy to be after a lesson.
Saba from more than time.
The training was held because of doing the course and they get away from maybe I can do and we are doing the previous training.
There was no longer.
Try to look for a close person.
They heard.
After failing to pass since the last training of the fifth person.
Where the end of the world.
And this is a squad.
Creativity and creativity in the relevant areas are believed to be trusted so as to use different ways that are more than the children using different equipment I remember this year also vehicles.
And in fact that the squad is ready but its punishment is caused by violence and we know if we are looking for the area that we can see one, the late does not want to see each other.
A lesson to someone who worked with a good work with a girl, we are meeting in dealing with robbery, but also money is one of the biggest challenge, in the end, Nyalandu says that together with the biggest challenge for now, he has learned that you cannot end the crime by depending on a gun point.
What is it?
