
There is no difficulty going back to Egypt.
APR, 03 / 2015.

These attacks in our country for now are proud to think about hard, as a country, we have closed down and we are Africa, only brave at stopping the journey and planning the journey and the journey is two different things.
It is difficult today for Israel people to decide to go back to Egypt, even if, together with lice and the ones that left Egypt, still there are some who remember the fish and there is no weeds in Egypt.
However, as a community, and by looking at where we came from, where we are and where we are headed, we can now see that there is no difficulty of going back to Egypt. And here I will talk about the importance of Tanzanians to discover ourselves.
I assure you that one of the cause of this wall is the sin of discrimination that started using my condolences and procedures we get our ability to discover ourselves, some of our political leaders and religious leaders have shown openly that they have not seen.
Meaning, we have begun to talk about the language of "them to Christians," we are Muslims, "we believe that we are brothers from the blood because we are the first one and this is the first time for us," Airtel Shule Yetu 'and its interests.
On the newspaper of one newspaper of every Sunday in the English language, the BBC writer was talking about the scandal of Bishop Gwajima's scandal, she is a man for every human being, but we are with a foundation of every human being, but we are who without love and honesty in the country?
For a human being, patriotism in a country that was born is not an issue of looking for a whole body, color of the national flag of the country that was born, but it's a love for your country from the heart of your heart.
And it has been written, that two goats were put in public, one were confirmed to have shown the sin of being left with a result of a human sin.
This is a festival for all of us for every Tanzanian for his position has a must to fight for the safety of our nation, the safety of our country's safety and we cannot defend our country's economy, brain, tribalism and color and here I will go back to the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere and the concept of building the national unity.
He is Mwalimu Nyerere who has started and organizing a big project of construction of the national union, even so, we see the current you will rise and leave the nation in doubt.
To build a community of contraception?
We see now, the work that took many years, due to the ones that came to power, some of our politicians, the ones that were waiting to fall in that basis and to stop our nation at the danger of falling.
And today, they have heard that they have written religious leaders, and they were left is the ones who lead in public, abusive language, bird feathers and downloading easily from their religious leaders.
As a nation, we are not supposed to see this few minutes now be normal and doing so is to speed our journey to go to them as a nation.
Well, and there is no difficulty of going back to Egypt, we have a must to plan the journey to go back to Egypt.
