
The investor urged the improvements in Tanzania of industries.

It has been written by Arnold Swai.

It has been published in 1st November 2016.

So as to reach the objectives of the policy of Tanzania's policy at large numbers, the government has been advised that the government is supposed to improve the policy of industries in the country so that the low-income citizens can get an opportunity to invest in small and big industries.

This was said the day before yesterday by the executive director of the Oil Company Limited Company, Sabas Shirima when he was giving information on investment of the factory to the Provincial Commissioner of Kilimanjaro, Saidi Meck Sadiki when he visited that factory located in Tarime District, Rombo district.
He said the policy of President John Magufuli of Tanzania for industries has a great intention to discuss the nation economically, but one of the biggest challenges is the policy of industries that need great changes in the country, due to many industries in the country, due to many industries to fail.
He said among the restrictions that cause the difficulty of starting and running many industries especially for entrepreneurs and local investors is together with great costs that are being used to do inspection and get a certificate of operation.
Shirima mentioned some of the taxes that contribute to increasing the cost of starting industries and to run it together with fire taxes, the National Examinations Council and Environment (TFDA), Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), and the Institute of Women and Drugs Authority (TFDA), and the Institute of Women and Drugs Authority (TFDA) and the Institute of Women and Drugs Authority (TFDA), and the Institute of Women and Drugs Authority (TFDA), and that of Women and Drugs Authority (TFDA).
"For now, the government will have a look at afresh the policies of the industries that is currently in the moment, and we give improvements with the aim of removing bureaucracy, we need to see the policies of the president in the country without restrictions because we have accepted themselves and every one with the ability to invest in the industry sector has a desire to see the improvements in the policy," said Shirima.
He mentioned other challenges is the availability of industrial resources especially in the farm, a situation that he explained the government is supposed to enable farmers with an aim of producing enough crops so as to meet food needs and serve the industries in the country instead of depending on natural resources from outside the country.
The provincial commissioner congratulated the leadership of that factory for starting with the policy of Tanzania for industries, by doing the investment in the village, a situation that he explained will help to improve the economy of the citizens of that area quickly.
He added that the government has intended to revive and increase the opportunities of starting new industries, thus the various opinions of the stakeholders should be discussed.
