
Yanga, Simba drinks.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been published on 28th September 2016.

While the fans of Simba and Yanga were waiting for the desire to contest between those teams on Saturday, fear that it has banned all the two sides after the leaders of those clubs are working on their preparation camp.

There is a report that Yanga has set up a camp in Pemba and Simba Morogoro but the leaders of those teams do not want to say the truth about what spread in the pictures on social media when they show the players of those teams in their camp.
Simba's manager, Mussa Zungu said the day before yesterday that they are continuing well with the preparations towards the game, but saying it is not important for the people to know where they went to camp.
In addition, the acting secretary general of Yanga, Baraka Shulukindo told this newspaper yesterday that he has no information like Yanga is in Pemba but it is doing preparations towards the game at the end of the week and two leaders got open about the preparations of their camp.
I don't have information if the team is in Pemba, but my thing is that they are doing good preparations to ensure they are doing well and I cannot tell you where we are in Morogoro and others in Zanzibar, but we cannot say we know where we are continuing with exercises, "said Mwendapole.
Moreover, on the side of coaches, Simba have been trying to talk about this match different from their colleagues of Yanga.
Hans Van Pluijm, the defending champions Yanga the day before yesterday told the reports that he is expecting to get victory after losing the last match against Stand United.
But on Simba's side, it is not the head coach Joseph Omog and his wife Jackson Mayanja who was ready to talk about that match.
Speaking to journalists yesterday, the information officer of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Alfred Lucas, said that due to that game, we will attract the feelings of many fans from Chang'ombe, that goes through the National Stadium and the ones that come to evade the congestion of people who go to the field.
"The road of Changombe and Spain's national stadium will be played on Saturday and the areas will be aired on Saturday and the areas will be an agent that will sell the tickets, the entrance fee is 20,000 shillings and VIP and C are 20,000 and VIP is 20,000 shillings." He said.
