
The importance of eating.
When we say that food shortages is the one that comply with the regulations of food experts who have all groups of food including food including food, oil, oil, minerals, minerals and amino acuated.
Some of the sportsmen that you can be able to keep in the streets which are likely in the meat of meat, fever is not a eggs and the location's eggs and while they were in snacks, soda, and cold drinks.
The eating of food can be put in the danger of getting married or increase weight that has reduced because those foods have a big amount, a lot of oil and a lot of sugar.
Food experts advise the athletes to avoid those foods and instead, the best player is to use fruits or fruit juices.
Issues of athletes are very different from the normal person, they are required to eat short periods and were allocated a schedule and kind of food in every corner, he is eating.
In that list, they used to eating foods that will build their body and give him strength without getting rid of any weight.
The weight or cows can be able to withstand the system of game that is participating in a level or not in danger.
Therefore, at least they are required to buy food for the awards to have three small businesses and three hundred thousand shillings in the middle, before their meal, (SMS).
Different foods in which food is like fruits, juice, vegetables and foods with nuts.
It should be remembered that all the close games need to have great strength, put baking paper, the body is waiting for a long time to a long time.
But these things should not be able to come up easily just without following the advice and advice of health experts, experts of exercises for the organs and special experts of nutrients.
There are some experts who have established themselves only in matters of athletes that is also known as sports equipment, but it is not bad in our areas to use experts of nutrients in the country.
There are experts of nutrients in the health sector of the towns of towns and who are not employed who finished in universities including the Sokoine University, it is good for sports clubs to start using them.
These experts are the ones that want you to advise the type of foods to eat and maintain for a special procedure of food food that we shall follow up and also following up on the trend of the players' weight.
Food suffering following a special schedule has been organized by being satisfied and the health regulations is a catalyst to the success of the best player, the best player will be called to have discipline in implementing this issue.
