
Explore your policies to give positive news to people with disabilities, Doctor Possi.
The deputy minister in the office of the prime minister (people with disabilities) Dombeni with Abdallah Possi, has ordered media houses in the country to have policies in media house which include the writing of positive news for disabled people.
Giving the directive before the media owners today in his office in Dar es Salaam, Minister Possi said that many reports concerning the disabled are stigmatizing and shows that they have no ability to do positive things.
During the same time, a section on your policies is to educate people that people living with disabilities are part of the community in every human beings life, "he said.
According to Minister Possi, the media that is being shown by the policies that was open by the government, people will continue and get good information for people with disabilities.
Doctor Possi has explained that the reports of people with disabilities are not supposed to have language of dairy products.
He has said that every television station is being faced with experts to explain information and important programs in Swahili language.

He has said, as a result of the government through the use of people with disability and the 9 of the year 2010, it is preparing to assure you of the media to have experts to interpret the news and important programs in the language of points to people with the same time.
In addition, the Deputy Minister has ordered the media owners to provide employment to people with disabilities, because the law is required to have any instrument with more than 20 employees, at least one employee should be a disabled person.
On their part, the owners have requested the government not to set aside taxes, that concerns the positive news for people with disabilities.
However, those owners have praised the deputy minister that exchange of policy as well as having experts to explain information and important programs to people with disabilities is a good thing, but they need to be given time for preparations.
