
Doctor Slaa expressed his Twitter account that I stopped very delicious with him and will allow him to agree.

At the same time there are reports that spread on the internet, Doctor Willibrod Slaa and the account that has been giving its stand on creating awareness of political activities together with Ukawa, that secretary general has denied those reports saying that he has never been on Twitter account.

Doctor Slaa, who was reported to be the presidential candidate of parliament, he was seen in public in big political events since parliament and Ukawa was welcomed by former prime minister Edward Lowassa as elected as the presidential candidate who is being supported by four parties that make up that union.

The last time is seen in the party's activities, it is in a executive committee when Lowassa was welcomed to talks and answer the issues of delegates.

After that, Doctor Slaa was not found at the time of being introduced to Lowassa to the press, an event to take and return presidential forms within the party and the day before yesterday to take the presidential forms from the National Electoral Commission (NEC).

At the time it is going on, there is Twitter account that is called Doctor John Pombe Magufuli, "which has been giving a short statement of having different information that is in line with the current environment.
On August 10, it was sent to you more than 10 times, one person has tried to prove to the people that, it is the real account of Doctor Slaa.

"My dear brothers, this is my official account, without any doubt and I request that I do here to be accountable because they are," you said that message.

Another report that was sent in Twitter account is together with the one that explained that Doctor Slaa has asked the security of the country and international organizations and he will talk through television and radio when they get security.

Speaking about this scandal yesterday, Doctor Slaa said that he has never given any information on social media.

"I have heard that, (standing) something in Twitter account, I don't have an account like that," said Doctor Slaa.

Apart from being forced to own and run that account, Doctor Slaa returned his statement last week that he does not see his stand during the appropriate time when they reached, after being asked a question about his fate in parliament and politics in general.

"Patient does not loose the joy, now so that you can get that better, you are supposed to endure them because when you get it, I will talk time and save it," he said.

When he was asked where he is for now, he said that he is for now, he said that he is in Dar es Salaam when he comes back, but he insisted that there is a day he will put open its future.

Doctor Slaa said he and his wife, Raymond Mushumbusi, are expecting to travel out of the country in a few days in the coming days, although he did not openly say the country is expected to visit, but he said he would return after one week.
