
Muhongo, the England Ambassador discussed the energy sector.

It has been written by our correspondent.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

British Ambassador in the country, Sarah Cooke, visits the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo and discuss on how England's government can work with Tanzania in the improvement of the energy sector and minerals.

Ambassador Cooke made talks with Professor Muhongo with the executives of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TPDC), Tanzania Electrical Mechanical and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), Tanzania Geothermal Development Agency (REA) and the Agency of Energy and Minerals (REA).
While explaining about the energy sector in the country, Professor Muhongo said that the government has put strategies for the use of electricity sources like gas, geothermal, geothermal, coal, wind, solar energy and the government in production and distribution of electricity in the country especially in the rural areas.
He added that the government has started using its gas that has been found in large numbers to a total of 5775 trillion shillings by building a gas pipeline from Mtwara to Dar es Salaam.
He said the government has set a strategy of spreading gas in the provinces together with others being sold outside the country.
"There are countries that are in the East African region have requested a gas pipeline to go to them, this will enable us to do business as well as to bring in foreign funds," said Professor Muhongo.
He added that other strategies being done by the government are together with the construction of a liquefied natural gas factory, (liquefied natural gas plant), a fertilizer factory in Kilwa area, Lindi province and another fertilizer factory in Mtwara Province.
He stressed that the government still continues with exploration of oil and gas activities in various areas in the country. He requested the England companies with experience to come out and invest in the country.
In addition, Professor Muhongo urged the England Ambassador to help Tanzania to help Tanzania to help the country's economy through the improvement of the funds that are provided by that embassy to study undergraduate and doctorate degree in issues of law and distribution in the gas and oil sector.
Ambassador Cooke said his government is supporting the efforts of President Magufuli of making Tanzania being a country of industries and he advised Minister Muhongo that he will supervise the England company to invest in the energy and minerals sector.
