
TBL to help producers.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

TBL Group company is intending to continue cooperating with farmers that produces natural resources for its industries in order to ensure the agricultural sector will have a contribution to the national income, including improving the lives of farmers in the country.

The implementation of the plan to work in collaboration with small-scale farmers started to be implemented by the company to the barley farmer in the northern region and affordable farmers in Dodoma province, it has helped to increase employment and improve the lives of farmers.
The Technical Director of TBL Group, Gavin Van Wijk, said this in the special interview that the agricultural sector that is being implemented in Arusha and Kilimanjaro provinces as well as improving the state of lives of farmers and it is also benefiting more than 3,000 citizens who are getting employment in its implementation.
He mentioned the groups that benefited with this plan, that its strokes and those who do work on the farms are asked for medicine, drivers who protect themselves at the farms and reach its spherical guidelines and destruction of crops.
He said that apart from those who benefit from different steps of implementing the barley farmer in the provinces of Arusha and Kilimanjaro, already they have started to taste the fruits of the partnership because they are used to run modern farming, to get advice and experts to give advice and be able to sell their crops, a situation that has changed their lives of life.
He added that the expectations of success of the program in the period of the year 2015 to 2020, is to grow by 44 percent in 10 countries where it has started to be implemented and it is estimated to increase production from 300,000 tons.
Earlier this year, the Parliamentary Committee on Industry, Trade and Environment visited the barley farmer together with TBL Group where some of the delegates of this committee also added this plan to cooperate with farmers to increase the agricultural sector in the country quickly and improve the lives of farmers.
