
Is there the wind of the world that affects we Africa?
Maybe there is a sign of the revolution of citizens that it encourages Africa.
It is a question that may emerge as a result of several events that it has been discovered that there is a type of events that it has been revealed that maybe there is a type of noise that could destroy the citizens and enable them to kill someone who have become many gods but their countries.
Recently, the recent incident is the fight for war-Gambia Union on Tuesday last week, where for the second time, President Yahya Jamila was surprised to move from power with the rebels who had in his tour in France.
That was the second attempt and after another in the year 2006, where that leader was to be used by the army to kill him.
If other leaders "many gods" in the African continent, President Jamaas he took the authority in the year 1994 to the army of the army after beating the former President Brian Umony.
Since that time, this leader has been vying for presidency for four terms, while he didn't give any symptoms of going against them.
In order to serve his girlfriend, he claimed that "with the ability," warned "the dangerous diseases even if AIDS!
The journalists have been sold to be the enemies of the country, and the activists of the rights they are separated as members of the country.
My fear is that a citizen in inside here is proud because of the electronic systems that have been removed and "the leaders".
On the month of November, a citizen of Burkina Faso, Innocent Galinoma who removed the former President Bhebey Ndey, after the trials he added more time to rule through conspiracy and destruction of constitution.
For the punishment for punishment, they were kidnapped while they were attending to parliament.
This course shows that there is a series of forest that is swelled in the continent, a situation that may give them an explanation of those who have been admitted to power for the years.
It is a huge shock that the Great Lakes region has not been admitted, because some of the leaders like Yoweri Museveni (Uganda), Paul Kagame (Rwanda), Salva Kiir (South Sudan) among many others have been seen to have the ability to continue there.
In the country there is a misunderstanding where he is because President Uhuru Kenyatta said that the Diamond's administration has turned into a surprise and by maintaining the opposition through "he made a lot of parliament to parliament in parliament.
For example, it is how the security law was postponed if that was not democracy.
The friendship of Uhuru and Museveni also threatens the questions about the intention of changing him.
At the time is the chief referee if the wave will arrive in the country.
