
It would have been able to forgive me if they do not lie!
Last week was good for the lovers and Yanga fans to win the England Premier League championship.
First they expected to take a match with Manchester United, but it was not ready, we had to wait for Chelsea match with Tottenham which won the championship for the first time for two years.
The truth is that there was no one who was expecting that they would send their championship. It will be remembered that the season that ended up of the bridge, the players who attacked him in other teams, were thrown out and they were taken.
A good example is the Australia goalkeeper who was in Chelsea but was taken to end in his football, Leicester, Mark Schuller who has emerged the goalkeeper who is 40 years, however, he has not played a match even one of the Premier League.
Leicester's fact, Leicester are attractive vegetables under the Mnazi Mmoja, it is that after winning its friendly matches, even if they started falling down and it was not surprised by those who did not get married.
They have gone up so until they were confirmed to be one of the semi-finals, but they won the championship without the presence of fry onions and now they are planning to participate in the European Champions League next season.
Leicester has won the championship and leaving that those who were sacked were given the position of the championship getting into the third position that are remaining between four.
Others will be forced to come back to the Europa League which some of the teams have been normal as if Liverpool's teams like Liverpool, Everton, have been in a long time together with Sunday.
I look at our league in our country, that's when they come to them because some of the teams have been made, can't take the championship although they can do that.
The truth of we shall be used to me when some of the teams are the best ones to qualify for the championship every year.
That's why it will be able to take every year and the ones with the receiver on the championship was surprised, for example there is a team like Kagera or Mbeya City being unable to make a wall that will be forced to stop poverty that they are.
I remember Mtibwa Sugar has ever been leading in that league for a long time, but there was a small voice down but they heard.
"Let me follow me, they are not happy, they are doing a rally, so that the day.
I have ever talked about the coach of Mwadui, Jamhuri Kihwelo asking about the questions that Miss Simba is not the team of Simba, Yanga, Azam can join God not for them every day, and they can remain, "the problem is that we are not happy, it is no one team.
I thank the president that every day he believes that Mwadui can have the ability to represent Tanzania in the international tournament.
The existence of the team like Mwadui and another there are clear that the old team is clear that they should walk so that the big people should be afraid, why is it easy to know that?
England is changes, why we do not see conflicts, which they don't see some of the teams that are facing us?
The problem here is dominated by deception and get money.
You will not heard that we talk about it below and there is a certain team to pass and because it is an order, then it becomes the order.
