Today's CHADEMA needs Lembeli and Esther Bulaya?
Jide 29, 2015.

The Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in the days of details, Doctor Wilfredy has said together with the member of parliament, John shibuda has decided to be same as the current parliament.
This CHADEMA did not know today, I as compared to Chadema members of those days, Doctor Slaa and swim, their differences can be equivalent to heaven and land.
I am saying that during the year 1995, when the former number one candidate of CCM in Karatu town, Doctor Wilfredy has said that when he decided to leave that party and moving to parliament after losing his fellow vote in order to carry the colleague Patrick Qam.
I am saying that during the year 2010 when the former number one candidate of CCM in Maswa district, shibuda has decided to return to parliament after being shot by his former party in his former team, that politician has had its national leader, because of a member of the National Executive Council (NEC) in the country.
Certainly, the year 1995, we will make sure that Doctor Slaa is in Karatu town, Arusha province, like that he gets a lot of money to the year 2010 in Maswa District Council.
That years, if it was the first child, we believe that as the first time, it was working hard to be true, in those days, the political party of the opposition to get an important person to join that camp from CCM, with the only aim of getting parliamentary.
It was the same as a result of playing for a political life for anyone who plays against CCM and moving to the opposition with an aim of looking for member of parliament.
Those days, the concept of the opposition was not understood well, an amount of community believe that anyone who was suspended by CCM at a member of parliament, who had been struggling to support the opposition or even to vie for a member of parliament in any constituency where the people could be required or be forced to use even one hour to cater for their campaigns.
Today, this is a very different time, they can't be half a half out of those who agree with CCM politics and the opposition parties, especially those who involve the opposition party offices, the truth is that they are very big.
Today, there are among them those who are ready to return their good office, the ones that live well and go to vie for the parliamentary seat on CCM ticket, because it can have a lot of 100 percent to win the parliamentary seat through CCM ticket because it will have a lot of 100 percent and their positions in the party.
Those are every place, there are every region, and this journey has prepared many people to take over the regions and wards, in the current political environment, that party can be able to make sure the politicians like James Lembeli and Esther Bulaya is that in the whole region of Kahama town or we will not have a special parliamentary candidate more than Lembeli.
That in Bunda Town constituency, you will not have its own member, what is it easy to know.
The victory of the party, Esther Bulaya has told the answer that Chadema members have a lot of its members to join the politicians, they are attractive and ethics, who can agree to their fellow members and other citizens in general in those regions, and that can increase good victory than Lembeli and Esther.
My brothers, the era of waiting for other people who want to do a lot, get married, and they go to get married, they will not be afraid, they will not be afraid, they will not be responsible for their party members who are not being taxed.
