
Appeal at the case of denying him a member of parliament.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

I was published today May 11, 2016.

The appeal of the former member of parliament for Longido, Arusha Province, Onesmo Ole Nangole (CCM), is expected to be heard tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in his office of the Referral Hospital under three judges that will take place in Arusha town.

The judges of the Referral hospital who will referee listening to the case, Sauda Mtibua and who will be the chairman of that meeting being assisted by Mussa Khatibu Mwaruka.
Nangole in his appeal made the decision by the High Court in Arusha region that was given by the judge in charge of the high court, Bukoba region, Silva, a gas, June 29 this year, who completed his victory for Longido parliamentary seat.
He made the parliamentary seat in the case to oppose the election results number 36 of last year that was presented by the Party's candidate (CCM), Doctor Stephen Kiruswa.
Nangole is represented by two lawyers who kidnapped the High Court in Arusha region, who is Method Kimomogolo and John Materu and Doctor Kiruswa has been supported by three lawyers, Doctor Masumbuko Lamwai and Daud Lweno.
Nangole's lawyers have presented six reasons for opposing the decision of the judge of gas to revoke the parliamentary seat of their customer and they have requested the court to boycott the judgment by announcing Nangole as the legal winner of the parliamentary seat of Longido town.
One of the appeal reasons for Nangole is together with claiming that the judge of gas was a legal system for failing to decide if you happened in the floor of the summary of violence and only conflict of words.
Method Kimomogolo and Matuzya, in their allegations also urged the judge when he explained from saying there were other five factors that caused the election supervisor of that region to announce results without existence of Doctor Kiruswa.
Another reason is together with the judge showing a legal action against Doctor Kiruswa has claimed that he and his team did not have ever done the summary of those votes because he got in accordance with the 21 forms of 175 stations in Longido province.
Lawyer Doctor Masumbuko Lamwai on behalf of his client who had brought a great appeal for a two reason to the judge of gas where he termed it by not knowing the evidence of statements that were given by Nangole and its agents.
