The expectations of the public and the challenges of the council.
Dec 16, 2015.

Finally, the council of ministers had been made as Mwalimu Nyerere when he was asked about the presence of Catholds in the council I had directed the Teacher she was announced by that question, and he answered that while he was looking for people with ability and reputation of work which will meet the needs of many citizens.
We see that when he gave his council, the fifth President, John Magufuli had not left four ministers who have the reputation of filling up positions in four ministries.
It is obvious that everyone will be satisfied with that council of ministers together with the fact that millions of ODL students have shown to understand that, because President Magufuli had to take a long time to make corrections on the needs of the appointment.
The council of ministers is the Advisory Council of the country, according to the country's leader when he appointed Minister basically, he has appointed someone who believes that he has the ability to choose the team together with being a small council of 18 ministries and among them being ministers who can learn more from them and to learn that they can help them in their work.
Meaning, in the coalition government's interest, we saw that as a council of, up to now, seven women are the council of youths of the Azimio Primary School, among them are ministers who were born before Uhuru, is the ministers of Charles Mwijage and Harrison Mwakyembe.
We should understand that President Magufuli did not understand that, their President Magufuli did not have a reason or he didn't be responsible, in that small council and important part of the nation, to appoint President John Magufuli from the historic council of albinism.
What you predicted is by what happened, it is President Magufuli to appoint his ministers by checking the needs of religious needs, then, to look for the reputation and ability to implement those development, tribe or the color of a person, but it's the meaning of a person, because of patriotism and its performance at work.
The challenge of the system.
Still in our system, we have many members of parliament who their main dream is to be appointed to be ministers by bad luck, a minister should also be separated by favoring any member of parliament who was appointed to make progress in the whole country, and not for this region it is a challenge.
Maybe a good system of getting ministers who will help the president and the country fully as a member of parliament to vie for a member of parliament and that the president should not be elected as a member of parliament to vie for a member of parliament and that it should be elected as a member of parliament to elect the president as a member of parliament to start serving the government without favoring any time.
This situation will help as to recognize that there is a need to change our constitution, so that the senior directors of government institutions and public organizations should not be selected to be the president but they should wait for contracts while being supervised by the directors of the ministry that are involved.
