Yanga defeats Ndanda FC.

It has been written by Raqqa, Pallidum.

It has been published in September 2016.

Yanga head coach, Hans Pluijm has claimed that his squad is well prepared to meet Ndanda FC at the Tanzania Mainland Premier League match that will be played at Ntasoma Hotel in Mtwara.

That game that will be played on September 7th, Pluijm has said he is preparing well because he believes that it will be difficult because the team does not give a difficult time and therefore they have lost two games against Simba and Mtibwa Sugar, therefore they will have an appeal to get home.
Yanga, Simba and Azam FC did not get to the pitch this weekend after having many players at the national team, Taifa Stars, which was expected to play away away from Nigeria in the game to complete the schedule of qualify for the African Union (UEFA).
Taifa Stars and Nigeria were thrown out of the race to qualify for the AFCON tournament after Egypt getting the tickets following the lead in Group G.
"We are a big team and for my experience and my players I continue to give them a lot of opportunities by considering the regional matches is difficult and the team will also give them ways to play in difficult fields.
If you remember last year I had lost only one game away in Tanga we were scored by the Coastal Union, therefore we will go back quickly, "said Pluijm.
The Yanga squad having two players that made exercises for playing with their team's squad which is taught by the defender of the team, Shadrack Kimaro in the Gymkhana grounds.
Also, Obrey Chirwa, who was injured in the exercise, that player got injured in the Confederation Cup match against Mo Bejaia of Algeria that was played at the National Stadium.
Other players who have done exercises are Hassan Mwinyi, Executive Officer, Ben Kakolaki, Oscar Joshua, Yusuph Mighty One, Donald Ngoma, Thabani Kamusoko, Malimi Busungu and Theo Anthony, Wizkhalifa.
Other players of Yanga are in the national team's squad in Nigeria, Yanga have played one game of the premier league against African Lyon with a victory of 3-0 goals against JKT Ruvu, therefore it was postponed and now they are preparing to have a difficult game against Ndanda FC.
