With the special parliament of the constitution in the process of a constitutional process, it's a process that you can say the death is very close to ten years and four people so that they can be able to come out of claiming the new constitution but there are two who we remember just like there.
The real party of this process is to get into the legal way, let you remember a two hundred and ten thousand, the law can also be accountable according to the law of constitutional changes that we will be at the end in accordance with the law of constitutional changes they will be at the end in accordance with the law of constitutional changes they will be at the end in accordance with the law of constitutional changes they will be at the end in accordance with the law of constitutional changes they will be at the end in accordance with the law of climate change.
Like blood we use the constitution of the year!
Today we should talk about this nation, one of what was successful.
That is one of the most importantly, we should see you so much in the time they want to see the views of the citizens through the national constitutional change to a Tanzanian who will get seven days which will be true then the child has music until now and it is soon, there will be an proposed constitution as a mistake.
That day we have said.
Which we can now I can realize that you get married in our constitution too.
He does not know what I was giving me so much to welcome him here to another time in this period, it is true because he is one of the things that have been discussed.
And there are some who said that in the world it was buried and has claimed that many other things like looking for that the husband was not there and we have signed taxes in the article.
The proposed constitution and his father through Philip.
It was a must I agree well as it is Miss countries we can we have.
I agree that many times are in a situation if it does not have the reputation, the late I do not have no qualifications, then I spoke about something that will not be found every time, I think it can be allowed to have been closed today.
What are there in the proposed constitution is that if it is like.
There are some of the Swahili speakers are my brothers together and also you will agree with me together with that a Swahili is now.
The Lord is spread by a big extent, but in very big Swahili language here in Willy, I've called me, I did not expect a place where he is going here.
Other human beings are a lot, Philip we are doing so much when I was very happy, God will never protect themselves as three.
But if you check our time well the death of each other.
The late God is a union who is an expert in the country that was very high for today, I was very big because the people of the book is in Ghana, something that had many million people, because it is a union.
It is understood.
All of us used, I used to love you.
Third world does not put a payment because people fear not present at article five, the page of the constitutional constitution is now brotherhood with personality, Make Me Sing.
When you go to you.
And will lead though it is not easy to welcome him and we welcome him here, the late you will go through a friend to my son and a friend to be a good sin because there is a lot of sin?
We have that, but the last one or four of peace and harmony, we have know you said it brought you know.
Not coming from the chest.
Now a hundred, therefore, the need for peace and peace will then be on how they are still.
What are thinking that in the proposed constitution.
There are a must that you use in article seven.
It has also been said.
