The late?
The election committee to sign the leaders of the main council of Brazil, when I have touched a motion to check the charges against the president on suspicion of violating the budget rules so that he can continue in his second-year election in the former president.
That is the authority Simba was leading the general meeting to support him.
One hundred and affliction of Brazil attended the demonstrations and the general meeting to show their support for two presidents of the party, the workers that are very successful by the citizens, especially the members of the ruling party and many residents of the country in the South American region.
His love was told that the crowd of people that the parliamentary committee has raised the motion by eating eight and eight at home.
Are every corner of
A high table.
Now the rebels want to do a revolution against that team that has dropped by eight hours against seven stem cells, but it does not have any meaning as a mid-fielder and if we are marrying.
Now, what we need to know the truth is what will welcome him at the time of the meeting of the member of parliament of parliament.
The main council of parliament at the moment, I will vote on Sunday so as to educate them to start a procedure to prosecute all the leader who are going into power with great opposition because it has dropped by the economy and destruction of bribery that caused some of his advisers.
It was very few sentences when they will support the first motion to be opened against them.
Then, a declaration will be presented in front of the Senate's council, where a small number is needed to check on them.
Using Mustafa Panju is forced to stop for one hundred thousand days in order for investigation and procedures.
The party of workers.
It has many members of parliament and analysis, they are saying it will be difficult to get that numbers to the Senate council.
As a result of his political rumor, Mustafa has lost their support of the government's stand.
And the political game that has contributed to the nation on the basis of dealing with her husband and the possibility of the proposed constitution is due to a tension between the rich and the poor of the nation.
It has revealed that the crowd of people that the rich business people in that country are forced to be forced to parliament who is easy to power and he says she has told Hussein to return the policies of voting.
Do you check to worship anything?
