Most importantly, we become a good thing to see our first topic on today's day, it says that you know the extraction of minerals of the Tanzanite and conmen of our topics, he says that when those two people are people who can't know themselves so they have never been commanded?
Going to ended.
What is the system?
To get in what we are good is good.
The language is.
The body is really terrifying.
There are some.
Most Tanzanians are just a lesson because of a citizen and stone.
He wants to inspect them.
Without a bit about why you can't understand what they come.
He was not found.
With mental disabilities.
When it is just a high speed and because we see every day in the morning from getting the players on the same day, they will go into the mud when he is not a girl, do not like him.
Hospital the hospital.
Public service.
If usual liquid food but there is my colleague has made a statement.
In the platform, we also destroy the ship or you can come up with the wall.
I will help him have been signed.
One is.
Changes when it started with the name of all the time they tried to let me finish with the poor and go back to the country and I told the father to leave.
He gets a book.
This means that you are getting in our little, we give we start with the claims of being involved.
We have gone back to our first time when he went to Masai.
.
There is a problem.
It would have been planned.
The one to be found.
What is it?
I have come with Adam when they made many have lost life.
And others.
A young man in the outskirts of little, there have a lot of minerals that you cannot get ethics.
Tanzanians want to pay for every person.
Nyeregete without the answers of told the truth.
Let me finish the contract.
When you pay for you, we don't know that if you get the end.
I could get a place but you can't know what is done?
Instead of mining minerals as it needs two types of minerals, in front of him, they are using people usually like the talents of minerals and their brothers together and that he is the Ambassador of Dar es Salaam, they are putting up with them, while they sell them on them when they were singing.
Further stated seven days will not be discussed if all of them were able to destroy the weapon.
To reduce the number of people something, it will also be able to have direction on your environment and it is like the one to speak about why we are marrying them, we can destroy their daughters, and we are saying that others do not know if we can't know where the government has caused you do not know what does not see you.
We would like to use it is that they are many people who are more than small businesses when they see me they want to help the community without knowing what we have been doing so much, why do we have a lot of employment because if they do not have a lot of employment, why do we have a lot of employment because if they do not have a lot of employment, why do we have a lot of employment because if they do not have a good time, why do we have been found when we get married but why do we get married but now I would like to identify themselves because they do not have a good time.
Then in mind.
The mines.
Earlier when it is divided into the reserve, on a certain amount, we are benefiting all Tanzanians and the lives of the citizens get close to the areas of minerals and for example in the cities or city, there were many challenges that are paid but that is the first cause.
Yes, I started doing investment because of the people from any country or other nations and who came to recognize that those minerals are needed so that there is a challenge because the company is evident that there is a challenge because the company is evident that there is a challenge to the community and they need to benefit from all the interests of the community and they should not depend on all procedures concerning the environment.
I hope to go back to Mbeya Province and also the bodies of the mining of minerals but also in each other.
Think about these challenges they get to inform them but it starts with the commissioner of minerals here?
Saying that the eighty percent of minerals have not yet been the end of a new girl and we use it here because it is that the leader of discussion with India arrives, they should be done so as to help miners.
The others who will be visitors.
Together, I know.
At the gate, they do not know about any thing.
How to protect them.
No.
It is not bad that their children gave a man.
He said small-scale miners will not accept to be able to use health insurance, after the players that they can be able to build seven minerals to them and the players who we take them to take all the opportunities they don't have inside here and you cannot have a great job with the bank to take their efforts to prevent it.
To follow up on the chest?
