There is a hole.
Who he likes to do and bring other great success as well as reducing the number of Tanzanians to come and announce due to arrest him.
The achievements we were given, I will request to ask for this establishment.
.
For a very long time, we have been wrong for this service here in the country, I take it if you are very big, we have our responsibility to our health, the unit can work and we are in the race to be able to work for sure that you continue to work hard.
I will succeed another thing is so bad, we are supposed to reduce the number of about four patients because and going outside the country that we can be avoided if they can loose the ball.
They should not prevent us to stop completely this problem but at a large extent.
Let us benefit us especially for Tanzanians who need quick services to diseases or diseases.
It's not just something that can it mean?
This unit will help first patients in which they are able to stop using their problems by suffering from many problems, then they can be given that service here to attain that service.
The patients of heart patients.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, we will be able to look for another thing that I got is.
We can see.
The continuation of all the treatment in this country in this department because if he said questions that it is a new concept of the government at this time they have discovered that we will continue.
Strict actions that we learn from the training will be held here in the country and all the people will be taught here to the patients, we will have the specialist doctors to be able to have a continuation of giving these services and expanding these services here in the country.
Insults cannot go down.
You find the others start! "
The challenge that is not today is.
Heart treatment is true and hypocrisy cause unnecessary accidents in the whole world, but I think that it's not a very high cost if we will take over the patient but it will be enough for many Tanzanians to be used in order to expand the scope.
Elderly women in that country have organized himself through the leadership of Muhumbili National Hospital that it will be given instead of taking the patients out of patients.
From we are complaining.
A team of doctors from the sun is self-employed while being modern equipment.
They will be one of the camp to provide services to patients in large numbers in their country, our doctors together with nurses and other workers are learning from it and is the specialist doctors from outside the country who are coming to do some of the here.
It has come from.
