Is it not America, China or EU who will be prosecuted?
Kristen 14, 2014.

International relations meeting between the United States and the African Continent has ended at the end of last week and there is a few weeks that the normal citizen can be assisted with it from there.

The meeting has already started to bring about words especially to our colleagues in the western countries of Africa.

During the meeting between Africa and China, Japan or the European Union (EU), the leaders of this continent have a chance to meet with the leader of the country that supports the meeting between two countries (not in the picture), America did not give that opportunity.

We have been told that even so, even food for the evening they had been organized, our leaders did not have a normal status of one week, which have been the norm for our leaders.

South Africa does not be able to enable them to develop themselves from their poverty. The only way that visitors can come up and help it more when they see them they will learn more than our country.

That is why the countries that are supposed to be in order to help Africa, the ones that have these diseases later explained that they are doing other things that affect the collapse of peace and resources of resources.

Africa will prevent us from poverty, ignorance, and ailments, where our country will decide to fight with those issues and that the committee decided to fight with the ignorance of religion in 1970, we did not help them by someone to be found guilty.

Mwalimu Nyerere once said that four things must be done so that the country can continue with the people, land, political parties and leadership.

The African government are now supposed to invest in people because of giving them good education and different skills to be able to move forward and ensure that political politics will be good so as to be given good leaders.

This behavior of African leaders that will be collected from tithes one should be taken to China, the United States and elsewhere, will not be able to help anything.

All countries that are required to help in Africa, now have great economic problems and that is why the political parties with political parties continue to get followers and communicate with us in those countries for us.

The only way of contraception is coming from our country and not America or China.
