
The suspect in the killing of Women's Women in Arusha has been captured by the police force.

One person who is accused of manslaughter and injured famous women, business people and children at different offices in Arusha, Adam Mussa (30) a resident of Majengo Ward in Arusha, has been arrested.

The suspect has been arrested the other day before yesterday by the police and when he was sent away from his home she was found guilty of two seasons and injured in Arusha town.
The commander of the police force in Arusha Province, Lewis Hamilton have arrested two birds that were found at home because one suspect was a type of Brooklyn were made in the Czech Republic with number 5 936 and was found with seven points.

He said that the second scandal that was found in his home is the type of Black Americans' which is a number of 3769 votes made by the United States with three bullets.

Sabas, said that the police force discovered that pistols which were affected by Seleman Bakari (33) a resident of Somangila county, Arusha town who his weapon had been stolen after his car having lost the previous day.

That same time, the head of Arusha Province, Magesa Mulongo has urged women to have a heart to be patient and to stop the security and security agencies to do its work so as to identify all those who are involved with the murder of women together with the child.
Pistols that were used in that attack.

Mulongo said this yesterday in Arusha town when he was speaking to journalists in his office about the message that was presented on various phones through the WhatsApp network concerning the coming out of women / girls today to the Provincial Commissioner so as to know their fate.
Speaking on that issue, Mulongo urged all women together with girls to be calm and to help the security and security agencies for all those who do those things.

Previously the seven people were arrested in Arusha town on suspicion of being involved in the killings of the killing of the weapons along with causing the death of a child, has found Nicaragua, whose age of three and a half years a resident of Olengurumwa explaining in this city.

The police commander, Liberatus Sabas, said that two out of seven who are Japhet Lorb (25) a resident of Sakina and Nehemiah Kyando (34), a resident of Ngarama we were admitted to court the day before yesterday.

While Adam Mussa (30) a resident of Majengo, Tito Kasibu (25), a resident of two, Joseph Magupa (29), a resident of Oliver Wema (23) a resident of Oldonyo Sambu village and Emmanuel Magupa (23) a resident of Oldonyo Sambu village.
