
To select the leaders in the foundation of politics and tribalism is dangerous for development.
At last, the police department has given the new head following the arrest of the intelligence officer, Joseph Kimwaga who is owned by President Uhuru Kenyatta, December 31st this year.
Mister Boba is one who won the rule of leadership from David Kimaiyo he will have a difficult time to control the police squad.
President and his government have decided to do his appointment without giving them the fact that this is a shame even to the government itself because it was chosen to be a low level of skills and experience in the squad.
Sometimes it is done, it is difficult to add in mind the skills and level of education or not only to select the foundation of transmitting news.
For now, the government has been giving work to people who have not been able to do very much and to prevent them inside because they are.
That is not the very leadership but it is to return to our country behind while those affected by poor eyesight and Kenya will continue to wane.
Let me ask you to strengthen the New York Institute in Nairobi the important peace to the community is clear in this year, when we start people, they are required to kill them in peace, so that they start with games that will be in's superstar.
It is an astonishing matter to see who scored marriage is not divorced, instead of maintaining love.
It is a must for parents to know that the society is a great shape of a good nation.
If the patriotic citizens who like their country and also their brothers, we will be satisfied with all the things for love this year of 2015, while we focus on their fears of peace, love and unity.
Speaking about the ship, the University of Mount Kilimanjaro - close to the public schools to be strengthen by the national examinations results (KCPO) announced recently, have already been involved in place to camp as Turnbull.
The towns in urban especially private schools are continuing to not hesitate to get in the national exams though the results are not registered as usual.
However, the public schools especially in the community of farmers are still unknown.
The results of most of the students in possession of Turnbull.
The government is to improve education in public schools so that there should be the same competition in the national exams.
At the same time, the environment for taking care.
Edward Estrada, in Nairobi city to reduce the road is very important to hear or see the news media how citizens get their lives in different meanings in different parts.
For example, she has written a story, one family lost their loved ones with water.
So, the solution is resulting from what's resignation and listen to the contract that brought down the hole and he refuses to remind them from the rains that take place on water, where we are running our vehicles to be fast since life is important than a car.
The type which has been built on Friday, Rwena from Nairobi has seen it is clear that he resorted to what he was heading to sink due to the analysts of political issues, they say it's a bad leadership.
The system of supervision and supply of the public property in the country have complained.
Some of the representatives claim that the governor gives out their recommendations.
Its a lot of time when the meeting happens, if Kobe who do not go from, what are we want to do?
Members of parliament to respect the year that ended last week had a cost of every kind.
The reason where the members of parliament were recognized as the throat, her clothes and a finger to the Member of Parliament for Donde Village are claimed that there are some problems and our members of parliament.
Each one who saw the photos that were aired by television, members of parliament, were sitting with the others standing, while the important documents is unacceptable, it's a great shame to the members of parliament to fight and give abusive language in parliament.
Some of the members of parliament like things that were selected are supposed to be safe through how they will handle various bills in the parliament.
Photos by Bashir Nkoromo, the University of Maseru.
