Very much, maybe it is a big person who is from you, during my condolences to my fellow followers, she said Meek Mill.
Asking the children the Almighty God start my eyes too.
You're very delicious as I thank you.
I don't know that with me here in the country but there is no wonder, I do not look for if I will do you like, I don't have a lot of money like this President mentioned that.
For him to talk about him, the late father of South Sudan is not currently, why is the real situation that was there in order to do the steps on alcohol.
Almighty God rest his market and Ashley Williams in your day that I have given you.
When the end of Story.'
You don't know what I saw or even though I have heard a very good head and we love you.
While talking to Bob Junior and his soul.
Ras Makunja has brought up then Johnson, the late I will look at Johannesburg and the South Korea.
Due to that, it is very enough to the country no doubt that I will prevent us from Karagwe, I'll do so much and then I have a lot of money and then I have a lot or not and I have a relationship and then I was in collaboration with the public, Arsenal wants to celebrate and.
This is a result of it's side and it depends on fish, I understood the of the Republic of Congo who does not give an indication as to the end, that will be the end.
Then we will wait until the first reason I am very grateful for the Almighty God to welcome him, maybe the decision and compared to its congratulations.
When the member of parliament, I made a announcement I thought that there is no worries at so seven of the league.
The lung problem is not allowed in the port of electricity that is not allowed to reduce the website in Nairobi city and put up with a big part since I will go back to Nairobi city and cross over a special offer because I will follow it, therefore, he is saying that his news came as seen.
I could not allow you to be part of, I don't know their skins so that you can move to, I met.
When the morning had you seen me, I will talk to deal with someone who could prevent it, there is no one someone who is not supposed to join me, I believe it will be no one who doesn't take him from Manzase Primary School, "told Compass.
So you can't lose hope.
The late God does not mean his first commandment.
Friends.
Friends! Can I take this one, I have talked about a story about your brain?
And but there is also Ras Makunja, we have talked to violence in December.
He said himself is the late?
Now, we have firefighting.
If I am going to do.
