
Natural resources want citizens to obey the law.

October 12th, 2016.

The government through the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism has urged citizens to obey laws and to avoid evil acts that can cause loss of natural vegetation.
Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, the Deputy Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ramo Makani, said the situation causes the country to become world due to cutting trees that is needed to continue farming, rearing livestock, expanding their homes and are being addressed among the human beings in the areas reserved.
He said those areas include conservation of the forests, social media networks and the National park, said statistics show that for now Tanzania is losing approximately 372 hundred thousand shillings for a year and the speed was left to continue to be a threat to its disappearance.
He added that there have been exercises that are going on about the implementation of those laws, where the forests agents have been taking exercise in conjunction with the defense and security committee of the district and different provinces.
We following the experience in the implementation of these laws and various opinions from the citizens and other stakeholders, the government has been giving various guidelines in the environment and different times, by considering the concerned laws and other things, "said Makani.
He said that the increase in number of people and their properties as part of various economic and social activities, against the size of the quality and the quality of the areas reserved them around them, together with forests, social media houses that were sponsored by many years.
He added that invasion of areas and running human activities including production, protect livestock, build houses, build houses and another of resources that doesn't maintain law.
He told the Minister Makani, he said a reduction in status of some of the areas that are reserved even to the level of losing reputation that cause those areas; therefore, it caused the country to have a huge loss in economic, affecting us in the community.
He said that there is need to improve the management system and the implementation of various legal action be keen on laws, regulations and various guidelines for a sustainable way.
Moreover, he said the government has been made a work squad with delegates from six ministries that will be involved in one of the various challenges of land, to make sure that all the laws be involved before urging the government about solving land conflicts.
