
Business people from the DRC conference.

It has been written by Saleh Jembe Blog.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

Business opportunities are determined to exchange experiences between business people from different countries when they meet.

We should use business experience that are with them, when they meet business people from outside, they are learning how to improve their activities and even expand the scope of markets.
The opportunity of this way is expected to be available at the first business conference between Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), which will take place on September 22, this year and attended by more than 25 companies from Tanzania.
In that business conference, which will be held at the KEC Company Limited in Lumbumbashi, more than 100 important businessmen in the private sector will participate, whereby they will be able to discuss the increase in business between Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
That conference which will be done every year between Tanzania and Congo has come with the economy of the Democratic Republic of Congo, it has reduced from 77 percent in the year 2015, especially due to the energy of minerals and investment relationship.
The growth of economy in the DRC country is in hand in hand with the growth of the economy here in the country through the 75th minute, such a report that was given by the Governor of Central Bank of Tanzania, Professor Benno Ndulu said he clarified those businessmen of these two sides, will get a lot of opportunities about investment in minerals and agriculture.
In addition, the conference has an aim of improving business together with increasing investment opportunities and cooperation between those two countries in making various opportunities so as to get investment in the economic region of Tanzania and Congo.
Therefore, on the side of business people of Tanzania, it is a good opportunity to make sure they used well the business conference to announce their products so as to improve the business environment between those two countries, a situation that will help the economy of the country in general.
Let us continue to continue to put a good relationship between these two countries, the business conference between Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo, will help the Tanzanian traders to invest in the agricultural sector of business.
Apart from the agricultural sector, Tanzanian business people are also supposed to use the opportunity of the conference to check the ability of doing business so as to put a good environment to attract entrepreneurs to invest in the sector of industries and transportation services.
Likewise, the business conference is a good opportunity for the business people of Tanzania because the Democratic Republic of Congo, is taking 80 percent of its products at the port of Dar es Salaam, thus it will help the National Identification Authority to grow.
Likewise, the conference for business people from the private sector from Tanzania will help especially the business people of Tanzania to get a chance to meet their colleagues in Congo and build business cooperation.
It is clear that if the Tanzanian business people, they will be able to use well the opportunity to participate in that conference, they will be able to announce their products in the countries of Congo and therefore it is an opportunity for the economy to grow.
The conference which was the slogan of strengthening business relations and investment opportunities between the two countries, has been organized together with the Tanzanian Embassy in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Association of Business and Development (TanTrade) and the Federation of the traders and Development (TanTrade).
The organizers of that conference is together with the Association of Malmo, Tanzania (TPSF), Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) and 361 Degrees Tanzania where the main sponsor is the group of GSM Foundation.
That conference was held the last time in May this year in the city of Kigali, Rwanda, where business people from Tanzania are also participated in looking for various business opportunities.
Therefore, the business people of Tanzanians use this opportunity to be able to support the efforts of President John Magufuli of building the economy of industries which will help to reduce the problem of employment especially to the youth.
