

Leaders in the suspects have banned 4150 million shillings.

It has been written by Lucas Raphael.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

The Director of Igunga District, Revocatus Kuuli, has said he has received accusations of embezzlement of 150 million shillings including some of the leaders of Igunga District Hospital in Tabora province.

"I am just as the director it's early to speak about those funds passed since there is still a Chief Justice and therefore he continues to do an inspection, so that I will be with the aim of speaking," he said.
That director has claimed that, 150 million shillings were given by the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children for the purpose of giving training for vaccination to experts from the health department in that district, January 2014 so as to be used by the hospital leadership without being involved.
That director said that when he was speaking to journalists who arrived in his office, requesting them as his office to know the allegations of money given for the vaccination training in the district, which have benefited with some of the leaders of that hospital.
Following those accusations, this newspaper looked for former senior health officer of Igunga District in the period of the year 2014 / 2015, Fidelis Mabula who has retired in order to talk about the use of those funds they receive from the government.
The chief physician admitted receiving money of 150 million shillings and said that they were used to provide vaccination training to experts as it was planned while claiming that he was surprised by some people who are claiming that some of the funds have reduced.
Recently, the workers of the health department who did not want to be written in the newspaper claimed that the government took those funds to provide training to the community, but some of the leaders are accused of using the house and buying vehicles.
Those citizens joined those leaders after seeing that those funds were not used as planned, but they followed up with them as workers were unable to sign some documents so that they are used to be used.
