
Doctor Lwakatare is putting up in the prisoners.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published in 15th of September.

The national board chairman, Augustine Mrema has proposed that the fundraising should be done in the forest and all the mosques in the country so that the money can be used to pay winners who are low-speed and help the board to implement its responsibilities.

Mrema has said today in Dar es Salaam city when he was thanking the senior bishop of the Mount Meru Church Ambassador, Mikocheni B, Doctor Getrude Clement by showing out of 78 prisoners for pay a fine of 25 million shillings last week.
He has said that together with the prisoners being provided in Keko, Segerea and Ukonga in Dar es Salaam city, there are many others in the whole country that are supposed to be demolished and end of their body outside according to the law.
He has said that for a long time to be given out in prison, there is a long process of following the money that they need the money because of the lack of those funds to the ones who have the qualifications to score.
I call on all religious leaders to support Doctor Lwakatare to pay winners who were supported by lack of money to pay a fine, so that they can implement the process of removing all the prisoners who are in accordance with the law, "said Mrema and explained by Doctor Rwangisa.
He advised that collection of funds to take place before Christmas holidays and new year so as to reduce the prisoners of the holidays with their families.
He has urged the business people, with industries and big farmers to save in that campaign.
Doctor Lwakatare said he has officially received that responsibility to the coordination, but also he should be a voice for involved, prisoners and those who face their families for a long time.
He has emphasized that the campaign will not be in Dar es Salaam only, but the whole country, therefore they are expecting to go to Morogoro province to remove the prisoners at the tournament.
He has said that after seeing the prisoners in the prison, he did not stop those allegations but everyone was given a soap, clean flour, new clothes and 50,000 shillings for subsistence.
