

By Glory Massawe, Pickup,.
The Primary School located in Kibaha in Pwani province is among the schools that are losing the popularity of Kibaha town due to its infrastructure being questionable.
That school started in the year 1975 having four classrooms with soil but later it started with other seven classrooms which were built on the efforts of the former provincial commissioner of Pwani province, Professor Philadelphia city.
Due to the popularity and importance of that school, but his condition for now is bad since its buildings have been endangering the lives of its students since the classrooms were destroyed and been put up were left roofless.
That school has given its students to study out of trees because its buildings are scruffy and has not been completed since its establishment, an issue that causes the lives of those students.
For sure, the school has been abandoned and it is proud to say that it can say the government or the council is not present and this is a big shame for the Coastal Province, because it's impossible to stop these students, while the religious leaders clap.
The head teacher of that school Leonard Mao, says that at the moment his school has four classrooms only being used and that it is forced to give other students to retire from trees.
Fanuel said that due to the heavy rains, those rains have come together with strong winds that result in the increase in those schools not stop and thus making a total of classrooms and teachers to lack office.
He says that the situation of teachers in collaboration with the school committee and parents started working on how to discuss how to solve the challenges of that school.
The teacher says that in their meetings, they have proposed that they have proposed that TFF will be able to pay 45 million shillings while increasing every student to pay 5000 shillings so that it can be part of helping in the construction of new classrooms.
He says that in addition to that, the teachers went to the director of Kibaha Town Council, Jenipher Mgendi, explaining to him the state of that school being together with wanting to get a donation about the construction of new classrooms in that school.
Fanuel said that the director has received it but he has promised that he will continue to see how to participate in the construction of that school but for now the biggest budget is in construction of laboratory.
He says that together with the existence of that situation, the efforts of teachers to work are still continuing to continue getting education because they will not be able to stop teaching because of that challenge.
"The situation of this school is bad if you will see here, the buildings have been put up and put up down, a situation that has enabled us to unite people here, we are happy to fall in night," says the teachers.
He says that the remaining classrooms are used for a phase with the first class entering the morning from five at five hours whereby the class one who graduated from the evening.
Moreover, he is saying that class three are using one class and class seven since class four who depend on the morning up to six o'clock in the evening to be used to cater for other students up to the evening.
He says, they have decided to do so, so as to give an opportunity to the students to study by considering the legal action of the students to register their studies because this will help to evade the professional students.
"Together with the existence of the shortage of classrooms but still the teachers have not taken up, we are using classrooms in shifts to each student to participate in all studies," said Fanuel said.
He says that apart from the students but also the teachers are in difficult environments since they don't have offices while they are teaching them in a environment that is dangerous to you and that they don't be able to stop teaching because of a bad school.
The school has 962 students including 150 men and 560 men with 29 teachers, including 25 girls and four children, he says they need great help to be assisted.
Together with those challenges but Fanuel said that the Rugby Chief Executive Officer who is a member of the National Executive Council of Kibaha town region as a leader to be followed since he has shown an effort to help that school.
