Mamelodi Sundowns champions of soccer.

It has been written in Cairo, Egypt.

It has been released, October 25th, 2016.

Mamelodi Sundowns South Africa has set a new history after winning for the first time in the African Champions League, despite being beaten 1-0 to Zamalek, on the repeat match of the finals that took place in Kigali, Egypt.

South African team won the crown by getting a total of 3-0 goals after winning 3-0 goals in the first game that took place in South Africa before the day before yesterday being scored 1-0 goals.
That team for the last time defeated the finals in the year 2001 when they were scored by the big rivals of Zamalek, Al Ahly on top of Zamalek, got that goal only in the 62 minute was scored by Stanley Nkwankwo Kanu despite breaking that game and made a hit attack on Sundowns won.
But resigning from Sundowns won the team to control their opponents and benefit from a huge victory of 3-0 goals that they got in the first game and enable it to win the championship.
Zamalek, entered into the field in that game having hope to change the results with Zekiage, not greeting soccer lovers and to cheer their strength while the game started.
But Mamelodi Sundowns was the first to do a power attack when his striker a Zimbabwean Khajida Kopa, he got a shot dead on top of Zamalek, on the fifth minute since the start of that game.
On top of Zamalek, I wish you to get a leading goal in the 12th minute when I feel extremely honored, who is the only one who has been commended in that squad when he was unable to wed after the ball.
Sundowns won a blow after his goalkeeper number one, Mganda Obrey Chirwa, was forced to get out of the field after getting a knee injury and entered into the 28 minute, but he didn't have a hard work up to 15 minutes ago but he didn't have a hard work up to 15 minutes ago when he did to save.
Zamalek, went up pressure in the first half but they met with a lot of joy from the rules of defense and defenders of Mamelodi Sundowns had many times found himself when they tried to do a surprise attack.
Bilame ', Pindani Nyalile and Anthony Larger for all would have scored against Mamelodi Sundowns won after making a surprise attack, especially in eight minutes of the first half to compensate the ball to stop for her treatment.
In the second half, the mid-fielder of Zamalek, Adria Khaled has been sentenced to a penalty after a half time before my memory before the penalty shootouts as they were able to equalize.
