What is the soul of minerals to endanger the wildlife.
Olle 31, 2016.

It has been noted that the wildlife who are in various fields here in Tanzania are in danger of being allowed in the mining activities in areas of animals.

The investigation that was done by this newspaper in the reserve areas with a conflict in the recent days, has revealed that there are companies that want to buy minerals at the animals and therefore to bring about a huge conflict between wildlife and environment against those who want to buy minerals.

Areas which are being affected by the situation is the provinces that are in the northern region of Tanzania, Southern Highlands, together with the ones that is in the Lake Region, the conflicts between the reserve and the ones that deals with Tanzania loss of billions of shillings if those animals will face.

According to the New York Post newspaper in America, if Tanzania will continue to appreciate the mining of minerals than the security of his environment and animals who are smoking the tourists who come in the country, there is a danger of the animals to be finished by poachers.

Mke Mwema should understand that Selous Wildlife Conservation with a huge amount of 50,000 million shillings (high level more than Switzerland) already there is a area that has been set aside for the mining of minerals that is set aside for the Vodacom TRA company from Australia.

Another area which is being mentioned is very mentioned in the headquarters of the headquarters, Kigoma Province, where although there are illegal immigrants in the area which is known to have a bronze medal and already there are business people have been given part of the area for the sake of the mining of minerals.

The condition is so that in the lake region that is in the region of Arusha which has had a conflict of ownership in recent days when there is a report that there are dangerous minerals that are inspiring.

"These areas have a huge conflict because there are people who did not want on the excuse of wanting to save the animals or other jobs related to noise, but the truth is that they want to be given an opportunity to attract minerals.

The others ask the permits for mining minerals but basically they need to get an opportunity to get into the reserve and to cause violence, "one of the officers in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism told the journalist in this week in Arusha town.

Mke Mwema's newspaper was asked to report on the previous day as the Meatu member of parliament, Salum Khamis Salum, a goat "(CCM) used a political awakening to achieve the availability of a bronze medal in the Mbozi region of Simiyu province.
The goats will be able to return to the parliament after winning the general elections of October last year by forcing his opponent in the year 2010, Meshack Monsigrated to parliament for a only term of five years.

Goats together with its partners, Enock Kalala and Abdelhamid Radwan, they were given the license on November 18th, 2014, the license was signed by the minerals officer of the Lake Region, Engineer Juma Semka and will last for seven years.
However, the availability of that license has not been encouraging different stakeholders of land and environment because apart from the law to prevent the mining of minerals within the area, other important stakeholders also did not be involved in its availability.
The chairman of the headquarters of the neighboring region and that area, Anthony Mtaka, was reported with this newspaper at the time claiming that he has never been involved in order to provide a license to the mining of minerals at the iba village, the area where the village was paid for American investors in the year 2008.
Anthony who is also the councilor of the headquarters said he does not have any information about the bronze mine and added, "I don't have any information about that mine and I have never seen people in the environment and we are not aware of the owner."
Some of the Meatu District executives have explained to remember that action, but they have been seeing that member of parliament who have said that he has a great and great strength.
In a short time is that there was a way they took place so that these people as well as our member of parliament are required to be given that license.
The availability of licenses is contrary to the law of the countries that deals with the involvement of several sides that are involved in the southern region and to give them a difficult time to meet the environment of the environment as well as required.
