
Lipumba was chased away from CUF.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda, Dar and Khatib Suleiman, Zanzibar.

It has been published on 28th September 2016.

The executive council of the Citizens Party (CUF) has announced his membership card, the national chairperson of that party, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba.

He has been expelled from what was claimed that he has gone against the constitution of the party and to do a lesson to the members.
Reading the decision yesterday before journalists at the party's office in Vuga, Zanzibar town, the member of the council, Katani Ahmed Katani said that the executive council has taken that decision under article 10 (1) (C) where all the 43 members will vote and agree with that decision.
Katani said that council has put an answer as Professor Lipumba on his action of September 24 this year, to attack the party's office with a group of people who brought together hooligans.
Furthermore, he said that council has been involved with such acts of Professor Lipumba by being in a letter on 24 September this year, he was supposed to arrive yesterday in a meeting being questioned, but he refused.
Katani said that is the last punishment for Professor Lipumba, who recently was the registrar of political parties in the country, Judge Francis Mutungi said that according to the constitution of that party, Professor Lipumba was the legal chairperson of that party.
He said that he was given out on the legal sittings of the main council of leadership which is the ability in accordance with the constitution to put high-level leaders including the chairperson, vice chairman and the secretary general.
Earlier on that session, the council passed the acts of statements by the registrar of political parties, Judge Mutungi to intervene in internal affairs of the party, which is going on against him and his work of the executive council of CUF leadership took place under the chairperson, secretary general of CUF, Seif Sharif Hamad.
At the same time, at the islands of Mainland, police in the special region of Dar es Salaam is holding 22 suspects who are alleged to be CUF followers on suspicion of being involved in criminal weapons, as well as bringing down the headquarters of the party office.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the regional commander of the region Simon Sirro said on September 25 this year at Mwananyamala, the police arrested those suspects with water tools including swords and informing them.
"These suspects were arrested with a lot of noise, together with 10 points to ask for them (SMS) being in a box of blue copper and those suspects were putting a vehicle for the passengers' numbers with registration number T 857, which goes through corruption in Mwananyamala," he said.
He said those suspects who are being held in an interview were arrested after the police got information that they have come up in Dar es Salaam city for making violence in that office and set it on fire.
"Those suspects were interviewed further explained that they are members of CUF from Unguja in different branches and they have come up for a special work and they are in the security unit and explained that there are more than 100 people," he said.
He said, "in more interview they explained that they have come up in Dar es Salaam city on directions by their leader of CUF, Nassoro Mazrui, who is the deputy secretary general of CUF who urged them to join with other fellow guards who are in the party's headquarters in Buguruni.
Sirro mentioned the suspects that include Saidi Mohamed the directors who was arrested with a box of "Landscrona", Hamisi Kisuke, Juma Haji Mwanga, Hamisi Nassoro, Ally Ally and 12 colleagues.
