
Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru has praised CCM of CCM if that party is heading to him for a candidate who is not well for the citizens.

Kingunge Ngombare Mwiru, who is a veteran player of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), has blamed us to have a big division in that party in the general elections of this year, if that party will leave a presidential candidate that is accepted by many citizens.
That statement has come just after the name Edward Lowassa was removed from five names that was made by the executive committee of the National Executive Committee (CCM).
Being mentioned by the names of Bernard Membe, Doctor John Magufuli, Amina Salum Ali, January Makamba and Doctor Asha-Rose Migiro and Doctor Asha-Rose Migiro and Doctor Asha-Rose Migiro and Doctor Asha-Rose Migiro and the main committee that will be allowed in the party and it is not allowed in the party.
Kigunge has given that statement because he will be known as he seems to have sadness while doing an interview with the Azam station, today in the afternoon.

Although you don't mention the name of Lowassa but it is being supported in his presidential race even during the meeting of announcing the intention in Arusha city, Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, for the time he was the only candidate that is supposed to be the president of Tanzania. "

"The procedure of this year has problems of what happened, there is no doubt that there is no reason that he will go to appeal, it shows that the leadership had already had a stand on the candidate that you want him," said Kingunge Ngombale.

He has said the CC-NEC work is to go through it, to look for the reputation, testing and removing them and then give recommendations. "

Regarding the fear of those names and NEC, Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, said that the party's delegates are able to agree with it, they can say no because they can say no because they can say all who are not supposed to say the ones who are not supposed to have other names. "

He has said that there are few things that will happen later, it is a environment that has been working together for a long time and senior leaders of the party.

About the qualifications of the running mate, Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru has said that it is a must for Tanzanians to fight with the opposition parties that are going to know the party to have experience in defense and security issues and someone who will benefit us from poverty.
