At the end of the 2nd of Dodoma, the institutions are underway.
Sei 22, 2016.

The executive director of the National Bureau of Statistics, Albina Chuwa.
While the Meteorological Agency of Tanzania (GST) has advised buildings that were built in this province to continue benefiting from its offices in the city including the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) are supposed to build buildings worth more than two sides.

The step of wanting the buildings that are not ongoing in two sides are due to the province of Dodoma facing a huge number of land several times more than any other parts of Tanzania.

NBS is among the institutions that are expecting to build the sixth floor of the sixth position after getting a 8 inch width "in NCC area that was done by the Revolutionary Party (CCM).

That office of NBS has stopped the process of construction of the office in Dar es Salaam and move the construction of Dodoma. The construction is expected to start on November, this year.

According to the Executive Director of NBS, Doctor Albina Chuwa, the office was there since 1946 and the building will use in Dar es Salaam city which was in the German army but the government continued to improve infrastructure so as to use statistics.

50 percent of the construction of that building is a loan from the World Bank (WB) and the other funds are sponsors.

"After getting the directive by President John Magufuli, we are communicating with CDA and they have given us the area of a plot with more than 700-meter meters in NCC area.

"NBS, will not benefit from the eye of the government, so that the government can make any decision and plan the plans that it intends to give an official statistics that will produce or coordinated by NBS," he said.

The chief executive officer of GST, Professor Abdul Razaq told our citizens that the laboratory buildings that were built in this province are required to consider the levels of the presence of an earthquake which has come from time.

"Fenella Mukangara has ignored all the building of more than two sides coming from the earthquake which will affect many people including the neighbors going to the building and even causing deaths, advice and precaution should be taken," he said and added that in the year 2005, he said and added that in 2005, there was an earthquake and shook the parliament.

According to the executive director, the government through the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication told that the earthquake usually happens without causing a precaution to test the type of rocks of land that should be noted so as to know its difficulty and be able to strengthen disaster.
