Despite the minister of land, housing and housing development, Professor Anna Tibaijuka said that in the fifth meeting of members of community groups, Professor Tibaijuka said that in the fifth session of the groups of community members, Professor Tibaijuka said that in the fifth meeting of the union of members of the teachers.
Second day of the festival of.
Where some of the government leaders and different stakeholders of political issues and culture are meeting to discuss different issues.
One of the topics that took place in this day are Professor Steven Ngonyani the coach from the University of Meru Hotel in India where his topic in African issues together with food.
Contributing to the topic, minister of land, housing and housing development Professor Anna Tibaijuka.
To hear the different conflicts of wedding.
Therefore, conflicts should not be afraid especially why it has come here, I was there and you will finish up with land conflicts, we should listen to him keenly to both sides.
It's not a conflict that you can sell them recently, they don't jump and it is good to listen to it because everyone becomes the one who came into his opinion he is looking for his development.
And in the food production, Professor Tibaijuka was heard the importance of capital and technology.
It is good that when you welcome the visitors the preparations to come themselves and they are able to believe since they lack the capital it makes us so that there is people of depending on food.
Moreover, the candidates should rebuke me.
Almighty God bless TANZANIA and a system of being filled with international water without planning.
Technology on his part Professor Ibrahim Lipumba who is an expert in economic issues in the country has denied the request for the government to care for all farmers without discrimination.
A partner comes with a small farmer to win farmers.
A large percentage need a small farmer.
I love you.
They want that for a short time to hand over the patient, they need to start with water so as to start selling water of farmers.
Therefore, it is only a must for the money that it will enable a small farmer and when you cannot get something a series of cook with a reliable price so as to increase production.
The fifth event of the Kigoda together with the teachers in the city is taking place for a period of three days it will end on ten o'clock this year.
It is a terrorist that has been reported from where they have shown the shivered.
And the parliament.
