
The lawyers are requesting the case of Ole Nangole.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

I was published today 14th October, 2016.

Tip Top Connection, Doctor Stephen Kiruswa has told the referral hospital that he has brought the request to the court, the former member of parliament of Longido Constituency, Arusha Province, Onesmo Ole Nangole, has not succeeded to request the court to revoke the decision of the High Court in Arusha region that was awarded his parliamentary seat.

Those lawyers, Doctor Masumbuko Lamwai and Edmund Ngemera, they said that the judgment of Judge Silva, a gas was based on all primary issues and undo the parliamentary Court, and have requested the Referral Hospital to agree with that judgment without any restrictions.
Those lawyers said that before the three judges of the referral hospital led by the chairman of that sitting, Judge Sauda Mtibua and his colleagues, Judge Mussa Lyombe and Judge Juma Mussa.
Lawyer Lamwai said the whole election of Longido constituency was buried and was found with a letter, and that was seen in the judgment of Judge Mwanazuo's gas and that is why he decided to break the parliamentary seat without any restrictions.
The veteran lawyer in the country, who used more than three hours to oppose the debts that were given and brought in prayers in the court, lawyers, Method Kimomogolo and John Materu. He said violence, violence and conflicts in the process of voting, there was evidence and was presented by the fifth witness in a short time and interview him in court.
He said the witness is the Longido district police commander (OCD) brother Kitoro who was the chief supervisor in that region and said before the judge being in the center, there were violence and violence and that was directed by the supervisor of the constituency, Felix Lyaniva, from the candidates and their agents.
Lamwai said the oath of writing on the fifth position (OCD) Deusdediti said that he confessed the existence of violence, violence and conflicts and was ordered to remove candidates and agents outside the summary session, and he said that in that activity there were more than 32 police, that the judge saw it is more violence, because the law is not knowing.
The popular lawyer continued to claim that the judgment of Judge Mark gas, was correct to break the Nangole's parliamentary candidate, because they stopped him, he confessed to court that Nangole who started violence and violence in the queue.
He said after succeeding to bring violence and destruction of results in computers, Nangole and the supervisor they decided to bring in an ancient attack, a situation that caused what they want, and the judge in his judgment said the whole election exercise without having any doubt.
Lamwai said the judges of the Court of Appeal to be forms for parliamentary results, the ones used to announce the parliamentary results against the election law, and all the results to be buried and they were buried without any interruptions.
The lawyer, Method Kimomogolo, Method Kimomogolo and six reasons for wanting that judgment be appointed, including claiming that the judge of gas caused a legal system for failing to decide, if what happened in the floor of the summary of words.
