
It has been known as' Thanics, 2016.

NHC as they save the youth.

By Sange, Tanga.
The National Housing Corporation (NHC) is doing everything possible to ensure that it helps in helping the community in implementing development projects especially that concern the housing sector, health, education and the floods.
In the implementation of its policy to help the community, it has enabled them to help 1800 students in Tanga province, who gave them training on low-speed buses.
Speaking to the writer of this article, the manager of that organization in Tanga province, Isaya Mshamba, says that they have used approximately 364 million shillings in running that project.
He says the aim of the organization is to ensure it is growing at an affordable houses project together with enabling the youths to be self-employed and eventually improve economically and to create employment to others.
Mshamba says youths who received training on the making of those bricks together with machines, will be used to construction of affordable houses.
He says that together with other things, they have supported the government's effort in bringing the citizens a better life and make sure that every Tanzanian can afford the cost of construction of houses.
In Tanga Province, a total of 400 youths have been given training to make bricks together with the use of the machines that are used in making the high level vehicles.
Those youths have come from all the eight districts in Tanga province, where every district has given one group that had 10 youths who were chosen from their council.
"Apart from providing training and machine to those youths, we have also gave 500,000 shillings as to start of operation, where those funds have been given a lot through the council," says that manager.
On their part, the youths who have received that training, have thanked NHC for giving them training, working tools and money for starting work.
Yohana Shedipro who is also the chairperson of Junction center located in Tanga city, with a total of 10 members, says NHC has helped them to stop poverty.
He says that they are using those machines to get income but also to help the society including low-income communities to build a good house at an affordable cost.
"Her sister is like you see here, we are doing at work, we got the work of three rooms, a bomb accident, a bomb that has already given our money," says Sheddy.
He says that they were living with me, but just after getting the training they have been able to be self-employed and help their families.
Apart from doing construction activities, they have also selling those low-speed buses at an affordable cost and self-driven cars, which uses a lot of cement that is believed to have a lot of cement.
