
Failure to get for 50 years.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

Research on problems that brought together lack of injuries has revealed that people aged 50 years and continuing to Morogoro province are faced with the disease, despite the reasons that contribute to them, it has been reported.

The coordinator of the quick research on problems that brought together blindness caused by BB), Doctor George Kabona said that recently in Morogoro during the work session of the results of that research which took place in July this year in that province.
That work session was organized by the administrative secretary of Morogoro province, Doctor John Mnyika and in the speech of those results, there were various stakeholders of giving the eyes health services including the doctors of the district hospitals in that province.
Doctor Kabona said that the research was done so as to identify the condition of the eyes problem in this province and to check the way to deal with them.
He said the research has revealed that the disease of an eye is one of the eye of injuries and still a big issue that is needed to be dealt with and given priority in Morogoro Province.
He said there is still a great needs for patients with an eye of an eye, conducting a surgery before those patients be very prevalent, because many of the age are very prevalent and their eyes didn't have even a distance of three meters.
Doctor Kabona said that the vaccination service, the surgery on the child of an eye for Morogoro province is on a low level of an average of 54 percent in the level used by the World Health Organization (WHO) that approximately 8 percent.
And the coordinator of stem cells from the ministry of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children and the elderly Doctor I will continue removing approximately one percent, blindness caused by 289 percent of poor eyesight.
Doctor Mwakyusa said that Tanzania has not been able to do an opportunity to recognize people with different types of disabilities including the eyes as a result of making sure that they have a great cost, therefore statistics that are using the WHO are using the WHO.
On his part, Doctor Rutambi has thanked the ETS institution together with Soudy Brown as a result of their efforts to help in fighting with skin diseases and also urged citizens to come out to test their eyes so that they can be fast.
