
Mama Salma clarified on the meaning of "my dear child?
Women are supposed to know that they are a mother of every child.
It is Namibery, The Citizen is healed?
Dar es Salaam, in commemorating the world's world's day, the wife of the retired President Jakaya Kikwete, Mrs Salma has explained his guidance tour while explaining what made him to come up with the slogan of "the child of her child.
He said the slogan which he has raised in her institution of Women and Development (WAMA), is the results of his real life that he is living.
Mama Salma made those remarks yesterday when he was being interviewed in his home, Msemo in Pwani province, at Clouds 360 that is aired by Clouds TV.
He said that despite the success of nine children inside his family, it is also a mother of many children who are studying in two secondary schools that were started by that institution.
"I started the slogan of" female child with your name "when I was trying to give a care to the community that all children are supposed to get love, it doesn't expect a birth or not you don't expect it," said mother Salma.
He said that it's possible that in his family, he has been shivered by telling them, to give boundaries because he had a lot of challenges of guidance, an issue that he managed to control it.
About his work, he said because he is a mother who does work, he has been looking for me the schedule of its operations in the office and some of its children, while the great support is a result from her husband.
My husband, I have helped me in a lot of things, especially the upbringing of my nine children, which is the first, when I want to thank you my fellow parents, good upbringing, and you should understand more, instead of using the strength and care of them. "
Said Mrs Salma.
While explaining the challenges of the current upbringing, he said the issues that are taking place on social media has been a great solution to many children getting into things that are not fit.
However, he said it's not a good thing for parents to identify their children, but parents should use the authority he was given by God to set aside time to their children, because they had planned to raise their children well, they will succeed to raise their children on how they like.
"There is a woman finally, that mother is a very important thing and you are required to use that opportunity well to your children, but remember that you are supposed to do it closer to arrest the heart every time, that is, you should continue to cook different foods for their family.
While talking about his WAMA institution, Mama Salma, who is the chairperson of that institution, said that he started being involved with issues of helping orphans and the poor for many years, but due to the increase of those children, he decided to build a school so as to ease the monitoring of development of their development.
