Yanga, Azam war.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been reported, 19th October, 2016.

After Yanga and Azam got a draw in the last game, today they have another difficult work to look for three points in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League that will be played in different stadiums.

Yanga will be welcomed by Toto Africans at the CCM Kirumba stadium, Mwanza, while Azam FC will have a difficult game that will be played starting at 4 o'clock in the evening at the Azam Complex Stadium, Chamazi against Mtibwa Sugar.
Both teams have no good results in the past, each one is a must that it will play a game to end the anger of those points that will bring close to the premier league, Simba leading the top position with 23 points.
Without doubt, a striker Cristiano Ronaldo who was injured and back to mid-fielder from Haruna Niyonzima with the family problems, may rise up with new hope of getting victory in the game.
Players who will play in today's match are Juma Abdul, who lost in the last game against Azam FC, Malimi Busungu who was claimed to be the one of the family problems while Ali Mustafa Kijuu got an injury.
Yanga and Toto are the teams that have been involved in having close relationship and especially because the leaders of Toto was alleged to have love with the Jangwani team in the last season, some of them found themselves in front of that match claimed that Yanga is blood, a situation that caused some of the membership card.
But their game will not be easy for each one, especially by Toto Africans who is out to be scored by Majimaji 2-1 against Yanga leading the third position in the position with 15 points against the leaders of that league, Simba therefore, by everything they need to be in the race to defend that crown.
Toto has this season has been bad, after playing 10 games, holding the second position with eight points after winning two games, two matches and lost six matches that will be played today are Azam FC against Mtibwa Sugar.
The Chamazi team is out doing badly in three months ago, as a draw without scoring against Yanga, transport and Stand United 1-0 and a draw against Ruvu Shooting 2-2 without doubt due to the best level in their last match, perhaps they continued with the fight and make sure they are taught.
Azam FC is in the seventh position with 12 points in nine games.
It's meeting with Mtibwa Sugar which is fourth with 15 points in the 10 games, Chris Brown will be a easy game for everyone, due to the quality of every team, Ruvu Shooting will welcome Mwadui at the Mabatini Stadium in Mlandizi.
Those officers are not there very much, they hold the sixth position with 13 points in nine games that they played against Mwadui in the last position with nine points after winning two matches out of nine points after winning two matches out of nine points and also Ndanda will welcome Mbeya City at the Nangwanda Sijaona stadium.
This team did not accept to be defeated in his home ground, is ready to win or from a draw, Mbeya City will have a heavy work of both teams that have played 10 points every one, City in the third position and Ndanda FC at the stand.
Stand United is participating in the second position in front of one point with Simba, for a difference of three points, they have 20 points today, it will be away at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya City and Prisons which will win 11 points with 1 points.
African Lyon will be the host of Majimaji after Majimaji won the last game against Toto still continues to hold the last with six points.
Without doubt if it wants your life it is a must to sell it, by winning its matches, African Lyon needs to win there and 10 points in the 12th position.
