DSTV to reduce the cost of.

October 19, 2016.

The Multichoice Tanzania Company (DSTV) has reduced its cost of payment of solar energy which will start from November first so as to ensure they are continuing to provide better services to all customers without checking their ability or not their ability.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the operations manager of that company, Baraka Shelukindo said that the company has decided to make changes in prices of payments for medical equipment, from various views that they were given about to reduce those costs so as to make sure everyone solve the cost of payments.
He said that apart from the existence of the payments for their program, the company has made other changes by increasing the number of drugs for every package that their customer will be able to buy.
"These changes will be used in November 1 to the Premium Lager Marathon which has reduced the price by 16 percent, CompetPlus which will reduce 16 percent, the 'tourist bundle that has been reduced by 15 percent but the package of DSTV has been reduced by 15 percent and this reduction will start in November 15."
"In order to ensure we are improving our services to our customers, we have decided to listen to their views of wanting the reduction of prices to happen due to the state of life this year because it is very little because I believe by doing this will be able to make them close to our customers," said Shelukindo.
He added that the customers of that company are supposed to cooperate well with people who are doing different research conducted by the company to ensure that they provide their opinions for the purpose of ensuring they improve more on the services they received.
Shelukindo added that the company wants to make corrections on provision of their smartphone so as to reduce some of the challenges they get in their customers.
On his part, the sales manager of that company, Salum Salum said that despite reducing the price of their phone company, Salum Salum said that despite reducing the price of their smartphone 'company has lowered the price of top boxes of "flash disk" in order to continue providing an opportunity to many citizens to get more income, thus it has benefits to many.
He said that the low-speed buses has the ability to record and watch the programs that they will enable people to fulfill their activities of looking for life because they will be able to view any period at any time that time they get.
"The aim is raising people who all the time have been able to start a lot of time, and when we are very fast according to its ability, but when we are doing to sell 270,000 people and those of our customers we do not want to build a person especially the soccer lovers," said Salum.
