
The one who was beaten is safe.
By Lucy Lameck.

A woman that was scored in the month of August and her husband don't succeed, he is safe after doctors moved to a surgery on the period that was there on Thursday night.
The prosecution was given five days ago by Young Africans Court to complete his investigation is that it has given him her husband, Mister Mohammed VI of Morocco who was arrested for allegedly making violence on Thursday following a fight at home.
Doctors in the main hospital of Kenyatta said yesterday that the operation of five doctors and took approximately one hour each time.
"The surgery was seen and we have faith that he will be able to talk to his chapter as well as a huge difference," said an operation of retrunning the winner's grandson, Doctor Edward Rwangisa.
He explained that the plain truth, Alpha Ibrahim, 32, for now, has decided to talk and leave his head, and that he is expected to be able to recover for a period of five days, Doctor Rassemblement have said he has already proposed that he will start being given food.
Miss Ibrahim was transported to Nairobi on Thursday by Amnesty International organization and he arrived at the Kenyatta to be at one hour and a half hours while having injuries she was defeated in the past, the stomach, and in the same way what is the same way.
The doctors in the KCMC Referral Hospital that they failed to give that case and forced him to be transported to Nairobi.
However, we should come up the operation, it has been successful, Doctor Rwizile said that the problem will also get advice because it has already been supported by the head of the unit of dealing with gender violence in Khajida Kopa, Doctor Fauzia Kullane.
"Truth is claimed to be a great fear and we hope to reach next week, we will be able to hear his information about what was done because it is a mother of four children, it is important to involve the children for advice because they also witnessed the attack," explained Doctor Makandege.
According to the acting Deputy Director of Public Servants Pension Fund, Mister Nicholas Kay, said that the suspect Mohamed Melele is the one that took place at the Saint Germain police station, after being taken to court yesterday at a speed of five hours and they will not be required to answer the charges.
The other suspect was taken to court because of the charges he wants to be given time to make sure that for now, he has not been denied the charges against him because the charges he faced were charged with the attempt to be charged with the attempt to be charged with the attempt to be charged.
He said Mister Mutta stated that they have seen the truth and they have hope they will be able to get affordable so as to help in investigation.
At the same time, the incident has already been used by Kenyans together with some of the leaders and social organizations, the member of parliament of Uhuru One, Mrs. Waride Ibrahim Ali explained his fear that maybe the incident happened before Thursday.
