
Education officer being supported.
Mussa Mwandemani talking to the Citizen's Citizen, annamatinde @ mkito.
The Sumbawanga primary school teachers, have started a two-day seminar to oppose the action that was done by the education officer of the Sumbawanga Municipal Council, by fining that teachers.
The Deputy Head of that school, Flora Millinga said that the teachers who used to teach in class seven in that school had caused the tragedy when he was the class when he was the mockery of books.
He said that they have reached that step of declining to teach in two days from today being of pressuring the executive director of the council, Adam Missouri.
"He has identified himself by shooting his fellow teachers while in the class before his students, this act did not depend on, because we have already joined the exams and we are continuing to enter, but we will not teach them," he insisted.
Teacher Msuha said the incident happened on Wednesday at three o'clock in the morning after the education officer made a work tour.
I was in a short period of accounts starting from two o'clock in the morning because the teachers of the English subject was his actual "that I decided to remain in the class when I saw him in a school area, therefore, I decided to go to the office to prepare for inspection," he said.
He added that "when I was on the office he entered into the class seven days and found the students going back to them, that's when I decided to be called to the teachers at the class.
"I went to the class and met with him, I saw him it was then he asked me for now, how many times you have?
When I got to the answer that it was three o'clock in the morning, he refused to wake up and did not wait until when I was trying to remind me more I visited him to play and leave the class, "said the teachers.
He added that already he has already attained its complaints to the secretary of the association of teachers in the country (CT).
The County Council of Sumbawanga Rural, Vicent Tinganya, more steps.
Baraza Ditto has admitted the occurrence of that incident while promising that his party will give his position to the media.
However, this newspaper made efforts to look for the director of the Sumbawanga Municipal Council, Adam Missouri.
