
About Angola, Teacher was explained, he gave him back, he raised the mockery of age, 13, 2014.

My purpose in this efforts is to show which way we can get married, if the country is important in the important things that maybe by many people in the country have not touched me, even if they have a true effects for us.

Diplomacy is one of the things like that.

It's a very few who engage in Diplomacy, these are those employed as government officials in the ministry of Diplomacy, like the ministry of foreign affairs and the ministry that deals with foreign affairs, "it is easy for many people to use the opportunity they have been given in diplomacy.

The scandal of Angola is a lot of example, but these are many in the world that there is a possibility that democracy of Tanzania failed to understand the importance of what was going on in Angola, in this scandal, out of the liberation of the world and the history of the world and the history of Africa.

It is also possible that people who had an important opportunity in Diplomacy, had promised to be the side of Jonas Mkude, without knowing that he is a big one that was born by our Chinese at that time it would enable us to support what they had supported.
Others are saying that Zebingwa, with his skill of seen as Samora, Angola, amen.

But there is a possibility of people to be given anything "so as to listen to our country on the direction and even so it is not ardently because it is a shortage of knowledge to think that our people have started using them since the past.

Therefore, there is a possibility that some of the heads of Diplomacy, were in the pockets of the south east and the south east and the East African countries which were out in Angola by using their wives to South Africa, Zaire (Mobutu) and Mujengi Gwao.

We, if we are African, we will be able to be in the scene of the real process of bringing the liberation of Angola, as we are used to be the FRELIMO ticket of Mozambique and parole in Igunga C and Cape Verde.

Kanye West and Sovereign, some of the interests, and some of them were the aim that did not know yourself and our aim is true that during the liberation, we were so much together with this issue of Angola, we will be able to be the edge of the scene.

What was surprising me, to the amount of understanding of our people in this issues, I have explained this week, that I was born in Maputo Stadium, I met with great ambassador, Mbogo Katani when he made him about the issues they were presented with their home's stand about this issue.

Katoma, as he explained that many diplomats, Julus Nyerere, was an important person who did his work in the whole country when he was surprised by his heads of Mozambique, he didn't know the government of Angola on 11 / 11 / 205 but also Katani also affect the local government in order to realize that Tanzania and Mozambique should not recognize them on time.

In foolish things, there was a win of the championship and failing to recognize the relationship between the FRELIMO and Central Bank, to fail to see that together with their small businesses, these are the twins that are supposed to be separated in a matter like this, it is a confirmation that our people of Diplomacy are supposed to know what they had doing.

Without doubt, there are people who have complained to that we have helped the FRELIMO fighters to come from Mozambique (and this is the whole truth), then we were close to Mozambique than Mozambique was close to Angola.
Another cause of drugs has shown is how we can be able to be very fast on such attitude.

Finally, Mwalimu Nyerere revealed that he had been advised badly, and he did not make efforts to defend the United Republic of Angola (R4C) for all his ability, until we're going to Addis Ababa city, in a special session that he has already been able to be read because I have already explained to him in the first article.

Without doubt, the teacher revealed that he had a mistake, and know that this was not been done by wisdom and wisdom for a man by a mistake and then it does not recognize that when he was seen, and he does not know that when he was stolen, he was the chief spokesperson of breaking the United Republic of Angola.

This is apart from that, after a long time, we scored our embassy in Zurich city, something that has been surrounded by our embassy in Zurich city, something that has been surrounded by our managers of Angola, who until today is the fact that the heads of Angola, who until today are those of the heads of Angola, who until today are those involved in resources of their country.
