

It is a story that deals with Pablo, Rich Mavoko who was born in Zanzibar when the family of teachers and the farmer, how he started crime, he has discovered the only way to welcome him in the fight against them as well as accusing his family.
Despite that he was chased, the eyes of the public especially people from a high level is not only courtesy of that nation from Colombia, but also outside the borders of that nation, including the United States the audience listened for for a long time.
He is believed to be the Jews at that same time courtesy of whom I have ever happened in the world history, accompanied by thousands of residential areas in the poor infrastructure, infrastructure, roads and every kind of donations.
In the end of the week for the second week, we continued with what happened in a day that is not seen to Colombia, on Thursday of December 2, 1993, where in the same time he helped her child to answer the questions given by a journalist, but also the police squad got stuck to Colombia to identify which he is.
While Lieutenant Hugo trying to realize that you came from the Eucharist celebrated in Zanzibar when the Ugandan star was going on with his child with Juan Jesus.
Juan Mata went to a question from the list of 40 questions that was given by the journalist from Colombia.
He and his father continued to make answers of those questions.
The current question asked why in other nations, he refused to allow Juan Mata, a mother and her sister to get into their land.
This family died under threats of the killing of the Los Angeles Islamic militants, therefore it was very happy to come from Colombia.
"Those countries were unable to go down because they don't know the truth," Eucharist said, "he said, he urged them to change the child.
"Yes," Juan Mata was agreed with him while writing a notice when his father was speaking.
"We are expecting to inform us for every office of the embassy in the world because we are determined to fight this issue," Eucharist celebrated.
"Because we want to live and study in another country without the security guards and maybe having the new names."
"It is very much, as you go to you, the father," Juan Jesus also wanted to thank her father's father.
"I received a phone from this writer, he will make the president Alonso minute, no I think it is from El Salvador."
"You don't say the truth I believe in Zanzibar when he asked, while leaving with moving towards short time with the second time after realizing that talks were taken several minutes.
He had set aside an end to speak for a short time so that they can be dealt with.
While listening to the good news, the child of her child reaches the eyes on the way to check the vehicles that were passing by the market.
"Is the one who wanted to inform me that I was forced to inform me that I had given good statements and that he joins you with the phone," Juan Jesus assured his father.
