
Mind, shot a bullet.

It has been written by me.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The minister of works, transport and communication, Professor Makame Mbarawa has urged the new board of Tanzania Airports Authority (ATCL) to close management and employees who are in that organization because they are not involved.

He said he has not seen any changes that they made the management and employees of the company and urged the board to make changes in a period of three months to change all or to stop the few people.
Professor Mbarawa said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was speaking to the board with six delegates led by his chairman, Emmanuel Kalobelo, and the director of ATCL, Ladislaus Mwamanga who was appointed by President Doctor John Magufuli, September 15, this year.
He said the expectations of the government to that organization is to ensure that they improve the business system from old to modern as a result of air travel to have a big business competition.
"We will also cooperate with the efficiency of labor together with the chairman of the board, the Executive Secretary, Executive Secretary, together with the directors and all employees including the pilot, the Engineer and the councilor on the ticket, this agreement will be six months and if there will be a person that has failed to work hard," said Professor Mbarawa.
He also said that the executives in the organization are required to have integrity since for a long time ATCL has no integrity, a situation that contributes to be successful in its business strategies.
He added that the board is required to supervise the workers and that any person who doesn't have integrity to leave early. However, he said that ATCL gives a speed up so that it is a must that executives to be fast as the government intends to control importation of two planes for a short time and it has succeeded.
According to Professor Mbarawa, creativity in business is an important thing and that the organization did not use them when they will be creative.
Furthermore, he has caused a lot of challenges that were done by the directors of that organization that there have been theft of air oil, passengers transporting cargo without paying.
Giving an example, he said the passengers to go to Comoros have been suffering from big cargo on the plane of that organization without paying and even paying the revenue are very small, therefore the board believes that there was a time when passengers had moved to that plane, they are told that candidates have never been present at the time they are open.
"ATCL has been faced with a lot of lack of money, I insisted that we are required to have a stable system, keenly and a vibrant system in charge of this loss so that our organization can open up to grow," he said.
In another step, the Prime Minister said the government is expecting to buy two planes of JET in the year after one airplane of the 674 plane to land in the country on Tuesday this week while others is expected to land next Monday.
He said that the government recognizes the challenges of the debts they owe which they will work with the challenge while expected to start two months to give instructions how to receive funds of JET.
He also said that the fare for the two planes that will start working recently will be mentioned and that it will be affordable as it is for other different planes including information that involve the internet. On his part, the chairperson of the board, Korongwe district said that they will ensure they have a business strategies with productivity to that company.
"You will implement the instructions that we had been given by the minister because they are not debate and we promise to work hard and we promise to work closely so that we do now be able to know more in this organization," said Southgate.
Delegates who were selected in that board are Doctor Neema Rusibamayila, lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), who is an expert in the international management of good governance and Ibrahim Mussa who is the Director of Tourism and Marketing from the National Parks Agency (TANAPA).
Others are UDSM, Doctor Omary Mbura, who is an expert in Trade and Marketing, Doctor Mussa Mgwatu, who is the chief executive officer of the National Technical and Electrical Agency (TEMESA) and Leonard Mao, and the manager of National Housing Corporation (TANROADS) in Dodoma province.
