
The workers are currently underway.

It has been written by me.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

The government has said that the verification of public servants will end in this month, thus the positions were left open after the result of ghost workers, will start to be demolished.

In addition, it has said that after the verification which will help to have a correct list of servants who are in public institutions with the aim of improving the service in the country, it will start a system of reviewing new names.
Speaking in the second phase of the program, we will implement that is aired by TBC.
1 day before yesterday, the Secretary General of the office of the president, public service management and good administration, Doctor Damas Ndumbaro said the verification of ghost workers has helped to increase efficiency in its institutions.
Doctor Ndumbaro said that after the completion of that verification, they will also start another system of reviewing new names that will be released twice and announced to remain with the right names.
"For example, he is using three names but he mentioned one from the middle and there were two names, maybe Mbizo said that the system will see that it is a new name so that there is a person who failed to eliminate that song," said Doctor Damas Ndumbaro so that in order to eliminate that problem, the system will identify and removing names that are not involved.
He also said the registration system through the National Identification Authority (NIDA), will help to a large extent, because it will give accurate information of legal workers.
In addition, he said the fifth term government has been informed in integrity and that the statement of President John Magufuli is implemented as required by the public servants.
He emphasized that in general, public service has improved different from it was in the past and that they will continue to take action against the servants that involve the ethics.
"The statement by the president of" mystery, "it is implemented well in the public service.
Our responsibilities is to prepare and supervise the policies, regulations, procedures, laws and guidelines that concern human resources in public servants especially those who do not have been seen in the commission of ethics and not the top leaders, "explained Doctor Damas Ndumbaro.
However, he said in order to emphasize on the priority of integrity, the government has been causing them to court and take action against them, servants who are facing ethics and providing training on various places about the ethics of the public service.
According to Doctor Damas Ndumbaro, the evaluation made it has revealed that there are areas that cause ethics, they are under financial areas and the sectors that affect the citizens directly.
He said after that evaluation, they are insisting on the workers to consider the regulations of integrity and to see the importance of considering the procedures and guidelines of service and that for those who make disciplinary action will be taken against them.
"Former servants who were doing badly are the ones who were given priority but for those who are doing well were asked so that they can be able to do that.
On his part, the Deputy Secretary General of that ministry, Suzan Mshakangoto said that there was complaints of performance that is unsatisfactory performance in the public service but they also insisted that the importance of considering the values of service to citizens as well as their ability.
"A short time after the past three months, we got the feedback from the workers, retired servants and different stakeholders who are coming offices and they are saying the service situation has changed than it was in the past," he said.
