
Coast to come together.
The political competence depend on how that politician can destroy the highest number of citizens to be his followers compared to his opponents.
Many times, especially inside here in the country, politicians depend on persuading the community with a large number of people to support them.
In the recent days, Coast politics is seen to be very fast following the result of the member of parliament of Kilimba North constituency, Gideon Mapunda, a resident of the opposition party in parliament.
Some of the politicians from Coast have came out to claim that the action is of bringing together you, despite being a member of parliament of Waja Spirings, Mister Thomas V.
For a lot of time now, politicians from Coast have been denied their intention of wanting to form a party or political parties which they can use them in the next general elections.
The step that was taken by Emelda Mwamanga made those changes has caused the existence of the loopholes that are now used by the Coastal Union to fulfill their aim of joining the year 2017.
The Coast region is one of the ones that his followers have done it to have no good position of politics, and the sponsors are the ones who have votes in that area.
That situation is different from the area of Nyanza where voters is expected to follow the advice from the leader of ODM Party, Raila Odinga, and the central area where a great ability to win in the general elections is being supported by approximately all the voters.
The Coast can be compared to West where the votes are usually presented to the end of the presidential candidates.
The main intention but following the previous general elections, seems not to be a big community who have been worked on more eyes and now they are expecting to have a great thing in the next general elections.
Several meetings have been done until now between the Western leaders to look for how to join.
In the Coastal region, shame is a shame to be fed a t-shirt that has been seen to add in the efforts of bringing leaders in that area together.
Most of them have looking at this situation as a way to benefit from the aim of those leaders to be taken to the government although it is also a sign that the journey of the 2017 general elections has already started at the coastal region.
When he says that they will not accept to be born, Coast leaders know the importance of the votes of the residents of that area being a politician and the main challenge to them will enable the residents of that area.
The Coast voters will be able to be said to be political parties because there is no leader of the area, he has succeeded to come out of competence and provide political guidelines.
In the previous years, the late Ras Kiduku was holding on that responsibility and later on playing with Karaerial balls, who also died later.
Efforts of the Coast leaders want to join so as to have a political saying that you will not pollute the vehicle when they prepare themselves from their differences and to stop for personal interests.
This situation is same as the western region where he also did not be found, an expert in bringing community together since the death of a youth.
How do you know if you get married!
