
The government to fulfill the responsibility to avoid conflicts.
The demolition of more than 400 houses in the village area of Kwembe and Dar es Salaam, is the conflict of land that uses poverty to the family, brothers and relatives who were faced with that incident.
Those houses are stolen from the court's command, after it was revealed that the owners of those houses carried out and build houses in the area of a person that is coordinated and there is no doubt and the implementation of the court's command, because of that issue, it has come to the courts and now it has reached an end that the owners of those houses were renovated.
However, together with the implementation of the court's order, they need him to have economic and psychological problems, for example, those citizens have come back economically and it will take them time to reach ten years or more to finish to build one normal house.
Apart from a huge loss, those residents have also been affected, because they know where they started and continue with their lives, there are people who have been faced with severe pain, their children will not go back to school if it was previously, their activities of wealth of property have never been affected by now.
We believe that these citizens are hopeful because the relevant institutions concerned with better use of land has a bad state of land that doesn't know the laws done by the supervisors of land issues when they are not on top of their responsibilities or participating in accordance to the law.
If the government will be required to supervise better use of land, conmen of land who are partnering with the leaders or bribery they will be controlled and it will help to eliminate the loss of humiliation as required now in the area.
We believe that if the government would have done its own responsibilities that arise now that we could make sure, the people could be demolished and remove the teeth of their homes, they would have discovered a lot of votes or die for poverty that had already been sacked.
It is something that is clear that the area of land business has been attacked by believers who do not have licenses or not being presented in accordance with the law, whoever who call them and some of the leaders or bribery they will get a chance to sit for people and affect the loss.
However, it's right now for citizens to follow the law to follow the law in urban planning, where a person cannot build a house without getting a permit for construction, therefore the citizens should decide to build houses by following the law is open, they will avoid the effects that arise in the residents of Tanzania.
We believe that these citizens can be encouraged to follow the laws if land officers have taken out bureaucracy at the provision of construction permits while also the government will make its system of providing construction permits while they believe that many citizens will leave the laws by getting a permit for construction.
Further, it is the government to be involved every time when he takes business concerning land because the sales are taking place every one to follow the law, so as to avoid losses that can be avoided if they can be avoided.
