More information.
When they read to them on what I was, there was a problem it involves as a employee who will stay with as a employee who will stay, as they live as a result of these people waiting for these people waiting for the law.
I was coming from.
And employment.
Two hours and at 4 o'clock.
For the first of, we know we encourage the employment that the contract is saying in order to employment the statistics is a contract between Brazil so as to be employed when the contract is one of the doctors and also seven wife who every one is near and he is ready to meet those conditions.
There must be a primary reason especially following someone being stopped or sacked from work and the meaning of the contract by going to rest it is possible when I decided to break the contract or even if you leave your work, the late God and and also violating the foundation stone which has invested for I am looking for a long time.
For this employment which have an agreement reached but those who were suspended is the directors of that council where there is the late.
I hope that there is a problem.
There is this problem and it is not an important thing for instance, there is a fact that there is a fact, but there are also results, but there are also an officer who will benefit them when they never face the same.
Stakeholders following discussion.
You think something that we know that the Nigeria's army who lives in your country to be able to see until you are ready to see you.
You miss.
First, let us benefit from our nations is being faced with a lot of poor and that is the ones in the villages.
For the rate of development in the league but poor households have not given you immediately you can write a whole officer where in the village where is where it is expected to live in his activities he likes to live.
I don't see the commitment of Tunduma and rural areas.
.
The marketing officer.
Drinking and you know how to live in the village where they were given that job is a problem and there are some that are inside you were suspended and there is a meeting.
It has seen the reports that happened in local government elections.
The Almighty God rest a distance of sixty 10 kilometers from the area of work.
To live in the world, the late Adam and the local government elections did not play recently in events, but we see the beating they were identified by the citizens yesterday we have witnessed the Executive Director to be given the employer.
And at the end of the election now, he can make sure that he can do our activities with success if they want to live in the village, let us go to the village where there were only pictures of the information and communication center, Miss Tanzania has left us to the village where there were only things to get communication.
Here is it?
A life I don't know because there are in-law for some time if you don't have a chance to view the country while you don't have a chance to watch the country which is happening in Tanga town instead of going to work hard so that we can be able to do like.
The late?
