
Makonda leads hundreds of Mjengwablog.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda yesterday urged hundreds of the mourners who came out to bid farewell and to bury his veteran journalist, Adolph Mkenda (47), while arriving to the journalists to make sure that he made.

Rich Mavoko who died on Thursday last Thursday due to lack of breast cancer and buried today at Kinondoni cemetery in Dar es Salaam city, the activities that were attended by various leaders including members of parliament, directors of various institutions, heads of heads and various citizens.
Speaking at the time to bid farewell to the body of the late, Makonda said that it's not a easy thing to get a person known as she will go down, and the work he made in writing news has helped to provide education to different people.
He urged journalists not to be dealt with and saddened by that God is the one who wanted to know, therefore it is good to see the time he made during his life.
The executive director of the government's newspapers company, (TSN), has launched the newspaper analysis of today's newspaper, today Sunday, Daily News, Sunday News and Spohr, which she has done a lot of things and it's the time they want.
He said Happines was cooperating well with the people with many friends where even in the bid farewell, it has been witnessed, an issue that gives a lesson to each one.
Chalinze member of parliament, Ridhiwani Kikwete said that he is a great funeral in the journalists industry but it should be remembered that she will go for his journey and his journey is already.
The chairman of IPP companies, Reginald Mengi has said that she will go to the community especially those who got a lot of AIDS virus, that is why he started a Tanzania Media Women's Association (AAT) for the purpose of continuing to provide education through the media.
She said she will go down during his life he did not get married without caring about the money or power, but the heart of love to love the community.
"God is sending to send the world to make her work, she will go with his work, she has gone into the body, but when he used to humble when he had made, they will continue to live," said Mengi.
Getting the bereaved, the Bishop of the Church of Human Resource Forum, Andrew Mwemezi Ngaka said she will continue working hard to work hard and his gap is big.
He said that he was a good example during his life, but for God, there is no appeal that everyone's responsibility to change his performance by living a lot of life, because there are more than four children's lives.
