The identity cards for ninety minutes is for going to show Mchaga?
28th of 11, 2016.

I have been able to change this issue of the National Identification Authority on this platform, August 17, 2011, I wrote this with the head of the article that is called down, "the project of identity cards is very happy!"
"It is a philosopher-reliance, Pickup, who has been able to write a song" Ex Africa, popularly known as' Follow suit ', "by her" meaning, "every day I will face another in Africa."
In implementing this economic condition, we have an example of priorities in government priorities in the national identity cards, its process has started since the year 2007.
Meaning, until this project will not be done, then probably there are some who will have seen that project and he will not have even without the identity cards they get it and also ask ourselves who are in our current state, the project of national identity cards have what meaning?
And today there is no other ministers who have the ability to open their votes in the session of ministers and officially declared "Honorable President, we advise the National Identification Authority to be taught and put aside immediately.
Yes, our ministers are the ones who need to form the government and they have a chance to give assistance from reducing the cargo of non-scale use that are currently used to cater for the National Identification Authority. "
And even the project of national identity cards has been a few people while many citizens would have been told to inspect today, between the identity and affordable prices of oil and sugar, then if they could be able to choose the second.
And not, we have seen that for many years now, we should be heard, "about the project of starting the national identity cards if we are going on at the center of difficult economic development including a shortage of food due to some of the areas of the country.
We expect today we do not have reliable electricity, reliable oil and electricity compared to our shilling continues to rise compared to American dollars.
And our members of parliament are more than ten players who had a journey to Malaysia and inspect the identity of identity cards to know, they have very delicious.
And that is why if you see this project of identity cards that it is a game that will involve the cows that will decide whether to go and even if they have gone into this period of lack of eating.
