
The government decided to quote it in parliament.
The government "Masau boasted 'in parliament, Chidawali about the Citizen's Parish, Isakemikali ward, Dodoma. The government has promised to take a special report about the scandal of ownership of the Dar es Salaam Port Authority (UDA) in order to parliament and enable them to decide what should be done in that conflict.
That statement was issued yesterday in parliament by the minister of state, office of President Tamisemi, George Simbachawene, while giving some of the donations of members of parliament in the speech of the estimated earnings and the use of the office of the president in the year 2016 / 17.
However, he urged members of parliament to listen to that judgment instead they help him because the fifth term government entered into and found a huge loss about the contract.
Simbachawene said that the decision has been made by members of parliament on behalf of Almighty God, are the ones who will be able to do so they feel it so that the city can benefit from the existing congestion.
He mentioned that the source of that scandal is that it is a decision by the city of Dar es Salaam to avoid the operator of Tuwalinde Watoto Wetu program.
"DART, (Civil Aviation Organization Harfanti) wanted to get the operator of that project who will have the ability to reduce congestion in the city said SGNP was seen to have the ability to reduce congestion in the city said SGavyole said that we will help them, but we found a lot of criticism and we had helped to reduce them as possible.
George Simbachawene said that, but if they should start with the operator of Tuwalinde Watoto Wetu program before them they wanted, "said Simbachawene.
He said after announcing the results that came out to have the great ability even the part of the vehicles, it was the UDA-Square company (SGL).
He said the company is holding 51 percent of the shares that contracts shows that they had done all procedures including investing in many funds.
Simbachawene said that they started fighting with SGL and finally discovered the existence of some issues that have been done by the city which had no interest to the citizens, but they have managed to reduce them.
Many illustrations including the purchase of shares to 51 percent despite that it was still needed, therefore, it is difficult to give a quick decision to listen to the court.
My brothers, the way I said, these things are very much and I decided to tell you that here we will be happy but we have helped a big margin and we had helped with a big extent they have helped with them, "said Simbachawene.
About the complaints by members of parliament in the natural resources, he said it cannot be same as a result of the environment of concerned areas including the size of the area, which is the importance of distributing resources.
The minister instructed the example of Kilimanjaro Province and said that you cannot be separated by the Mpanda district that seems to be more big in that province.
In his opinion on behalf of the Member of Parliament of Nkasi district, Ali Kenwanja, about the division of financial resources and infrastructure, the minister said that the structure as it is now in some of the areas it's impossible to be in a long time.
He promised to give recommendations at the concerned areas so that the members of parliament for special seats are able to participate in the financial committee of the councilors councils in their councils.
