There is a place.
Wherever you are in the headlines for research conducted by the national news on the news media houses, we got it here in the continent that will take the national news.
Mandla claimed that ten people were injured in the accident that happened earlier today at Wami area that Coast together with ten injured.
And those who showed themselves as required to be taken to Muhimbili National Hospital in the city where they have received the reports of God is faithful here.
While speaking to bully in that hospital, the deputy minister of internal affairs, Pereira Silima has explained his disappointment with the accident which occurred in the Mbole Area, which costs the lives of those people who were going to fall into the area where those researchers were present at the second area after the same bus.
That accident involving a lorry that resulted in one accident, then in other accidents, the area is out of two sides that I won.
In fact, as the government we had been very happy and.
An accident that led to diabetes is losing a lot of life together.
Increasing the number of people.
And in this, I think I will give a call to drivers who are a big part of the reasons that is causing accidents and lost life through a man's lives and we want to fulfill the traffic rules.
Because of having the passengers that are not present.
As it is the Capacity Building, preparing for you but also.
The issue of following the law and road accidents is an important thing.
Moreover, Silima has urged the drivers in the country to focus on road safety laws together with urging the police force to ensure that it is implementing the law including inspection of time to time.
On his part, the ambassador of Kenya here in the country, Mosene Nyambabe, has thanked the local government starting with great help in helping the injured of getting to the family in this accident they have been forced to be transported to them.
Mamboleo Newspaper here, where we are.
And the injuries are ten and eight to lose their lives, but we are happy to see for the great help of the government can provide and be able to save our colleagues in an accident which does not have the body, but we request that.
These things have been done in Dar es Salaam, we will start stopping.
