
Lissu is expected to present the evidence of the disease.

September 22, 2016.

Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court, Dar es Salaam, has directed the sponsors of the fourth case in incitement cases who is a member of parliament of Singida East, Tundu Lissu, to make sure he is going in court on October 4th this year with the illustrations for the court that he went to Germany for treatment.
That order was issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday by Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court, Thomas Simba, after his sponsors, Ibrahim Hemed and Robert Katula has said that the court that Lissu did not arrived in the court the day before yesterday due to being outside the country for treatment.
After Lissu failed to leave the court the day before yesterday, the judge wanted to visit the court yesterday so as to explain it is why he is supposed to attend the court every case is expected to attend the court every case was mentioned and told the court because of the defendant not to arrive.
Apart from Lissu, other defendants in that case is the Dawn newspaper, Simon Mkingie has been poisoned.
"Today I gave the last warning to another day the accused that you came up with a lot of you, if you came into the contract with the government for asking those who want to make sure we have done to court," said the resident of Simba.
He said that he has given that warning after Lisu despite knowing that he has a case in court, September 19 this year, where he was seen to court there, but when that case was started to court there and even if that case was started to court and there was no any report from the sponsors.
On the 19th of September, the lawyer of Lissu, Peter Kibatala told the court that the defendant was there in the area to go together, but he did not have information because he did not have an explanation of what he was being mentioned.
Previously, the senior officials of the government, up to me Mutta said that the court wants to travel to the defendant as well as required to ask for a permit to travel out of the country from the court so as to evade a permit for traveling out of the country from the court so as to avoid conflicts that happened to the court while other three accused were there.
In that case, those accused are alleged that between January 12 and 14 of this year, in Dar es Salaam city round Idrissa Abdul Wakil together with Lissu received and printing incitement reports with a news headline you will know that the violence erupted in Zanzibar. "
The case has postponed until October 4th this year when it was mentioned again.
