
Lissu is in court in Kisutu.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

It has been published in 21st September 2016.

The resident magistrate court, Kisutu, Dar es Salaam has condemned the member of parliament of Singida East, Tundu Lissu (CCM) who are going to go to the charges of incitement, he will go to court today, to explain what he is proud of it.

Lissu is supposed to explain because he said that his sponsor did not arrive at the court yesterday when that case was mentioned to give a decision on the opposition side.
The chief resident magistrate, Thomas Simba gave that order yesterday after the attorney general, Mutta said up to him who wanted to give documents to arrest him, Lissu because of not getting to court.
Previously when he was giving that decision, Judge Simba admitted the petition on the defense and allow the side of the Republic to bring down two incitement charges, which previously they were canceled because they had no permit for Director of Public Prosecution (DPP).
He said earlier, the charges were removed because they had no permit, but now he has agreed because it has been presented together with the DPP document, also the state of the Republic had a right to respect the mistakes and put it again in court.
However, after the release of that decision, the attorney general, Peter Kibatala claimed that they were not satisfied, therefore they are expected to appeal to the because the charges were canceled.
Furthermore, he requested the court not to stop the charges until that appeal will be heard in the high court and given a decision by the senior government lawyer, Mutta said that himself claimed that the investigation of that case has been completed.
Recently, the defense had presented the petition, after retiring from being accused of the documents that were renovated by increasing two charges, which previously has been canceled due to the charges by being new charges, they will not be canceled due to the charges that were sacked by the court yesterday June 28, this year.
Responding to those topics, Lowassa who claimed that the first charge of five is if they are not there will be there in court and that the result of him is not supposed to bring him again.
Other than Lissu mentioned other defendants in that case is the editor of the Dawn newspaper, Simon Mkomagu, the author of that newspaper, Chrizostom Thadeo.
It is alleged that between January 12th and 14, this year, Dar es Salaam, with the aim of bringing hatred to the citizens of Zanzibar, weni Jabir Seif and Lissu, together they wrote and printing different reports of incitement with the news headline you will know, "violence erupted in Zanzibar."
In the charges against Altay FK, it is alleged that on January 13th at the Jamaaha in Dar es Salaam, he was sworn in the Dawn newspaper for incitement reports, he also sworn in the newspaper without presenting the oath of honor to the registrar of newspapers.
