
Karaga did not want the IEBC since it should be tough change before 2017.
John Pombe Magufuli and Charles B.
The leader of Narok Kenya, Martha Karoli has urged big changes that are being done in the free commission of elections and borders (IEBC) as part of the preparation of the 2017 general elections.
However, maybe some of the heads of the IEBC indicated that some of his recommendations like the investigation of how the commissioners from the workers of that commission that we got their property.
Through the report that he has been sent to the press yesterday, Miss Karuma however, he congratulated the IEBC by announcing open on the end of the next general elections that on Tuesday 8th August, 2017.
"Now a task that is facing the IEBC is to make sure that while dancing with public faith in its performance, which this time is under more."
He said.
That politician who will be vying for presidency for the second period, after being unable to run the race for the year 2013, he said to set aside the date of the election that has given a chance to the nation to think about the mistakes that took place in 2013 should not be given to the end.
"A problem and several challenges that are facing the 2013 elections are the ones that gets to be treated from the IEBC, a situation that led to many citizens lack faith in it," said Mrs Karoli.
"The process of changes in the IEBC is to include all stakeholders including political parties, especially small businesses, this situation will destroy the concept that this commission faced with small businesses, a situation that will enable the commission to consider recommendations from those stakeholders, a situation that will enable the commission to consider their faith in its performance," he said.
That party also wanted the IEBC to address a trap of living in Kenyans about the ongoing operation of registration of new voters, especially those living in the country.
"The issue of conservation of the murder of voters will also be responsible.
The report added.
Regarding the changes that the IEBC continues to implement especially in elections law, Masaki, Kenya is wanting the commission to include all stakeholders in the activity and that it is required to retire while completing.
