
15 institutions are vying for the marriage of how.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

The government has revealed that the presence of 15 public institutions in the country which have continued to run awareness on corruption, warned that it will not be patient with any institution or any institution that will be known to be involved in monitoring of marriage actions.

Those institutions in accordance with the government are in 11 provinces in Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Shinyanga, Mbeya, Tabora, Tabora, Dodoma, Kilimanjaro, Njombe, Lindi and Morogoro.
Minister of Constitution and law, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has said yesterday that the government will not tolerate any institution or any institution, who will be involved in educating on issues of marriage activities in the country because those acts are criminal offenses.
Although he did not mention those institutions, Doctor Mwakyembe said that stern legal action will be taken against someone, a group or an institution that will be known to make awareness, stop using those acts in the country.
He was speaking with the journalists about the statement by the American government that Tanzania depends on human rights because they should realize that they are annoyed by providing health services that were affected by AIDS, chest and people involved in the love of the way.
Doctor Mwakyembe said Tanzania does not have never been done by the law, policy, regulations or guidelines which aims at hiding the victims of the AIDS virus, AIDS and the chest and added that all the victims that they will get all services easily without considering that they will pay the infection of those diseases if the health policy is said.
He said the fifth term government is not acceptable while looking at the laws of the country to be treated through the acts of ethics and eventually completing great effects on this time and in later.
"The government is not ready to continue being run without hesitation and Principe and attractive things like the ones not going on, they will not be satisfied or to get high costs from countries that are developed or big international organizations," he explained.
He said the government will not depend on and lead the world that this country is administration of law and there is no legal issues that will be left in every country especially the excuse of dealing with AIDS virus and AIDS.
Speaking about those institutions, Doctor Mwakyembe said the government shows that those institutions have been doing good meetings with the celebrations, to prepare and printing different publications in order to expand those acts and protect themselves in primary and secondary schools in the country.
He said that all those who have been done through the details of giving donations to help the HIV virus and HIV when they stop the ones they are doing, they do not have another agenda which will not be used in those diseases if they are said.
He added that government has discovered that Tanzania has been planned to be the center of those actions in the East African countries.
Minister said as a result of that plan, the government is ready to lack the donations so as to make Tanzania be safe for now and for the future generations, while considering the culture, culture and religious faith as it was in the past.
