
CCTV cameras will expand the state of security and reduce accidents.
The step of putting the CCTV camera in the main road in the city and in the country, will improve road safety, while the traffic police and reduce accidents.
This will be not only in the state of transport but also to reduce the crime and terrorism in the country because of those involved in this country.
What is happening, many Kenyans are like the Diamond's government will fulfill his promise.
Many of them have no faith in government projects because after the Diamond's side to avoid winners they don't meet their differences, including employment to the youth though the foods have risen up so far, lack of faith in their government are breaking the faith of Kenyans.
A disaster of hunger, especially the employment is the problem to Kenyans where the government needs to increase in addition.
The importance of the law that also put into the regular low level is the ones that are supposed to fall in Nairobi.
Talks will be careful so that the whole process of the Maziku between the government and the opposition is necessary so that there will be a good source of development, tribalism and difficult life in the country if the government and the opposition sides will have a good relationship.
The Mazombe and on this also may make the country together without considering the basis of the mRDT measures.
The idea of the government depends on some of the leaders of the foreign nations is good, but we are following the first to make talks between us before getting advice from elsewhere.
Titus Chanjamjawiri secondary school is in position for life for many youths who have gone to and do not work hard, this issue they will make it so much because without work they are involved in evil actions, that's why they get married.
Parents have made their responsibility to pay for fees and students to participate in various professions.
Lali the certificates they were continuing to get off the handover.
This matter is supposed to be careful or in front of government policies as it wants this country to be like one community.
Crime and especially the ones violating the day they involved many youths of the terror group, have listed many youths after promising to give them a lot of money.
Drugs have asked many youths.
The interests of the youth do not be handled by very keenly.
Ken Otieno.
The death of a ten-year old girl and was killed by claims that it is needed by the residents of Yaredi, there should be doubt, the exercise is in the city is like that, therefore, acts of citizens are supposed to provide information to the community.
David Lugenge from China.
Politicians feel that the Kenyans are fighting and broke down in the year 2007 because of the fish ones.
The ones involved in disasters and enmity.
Many Kenyans who live under one dollar in a day, are forced their counterparts in the foundation of tribalism and religion in order to fulfill the goals of the most of their leaders.
Our close relatives in the streets are not of our tribe and we are inspiring.
When it arrived at the time of politics, politicians do not know the truth of tribalism and agree to think we are communicating with our neighbors who even after the election we will face with them.
Eliona.
In Mombasa, President Uhuru Kenyatta to be taught the names of Zantel, out of various leaders about the national debate.
I am surprised the reason for President Uhuru Kenyatta to be forced to get into his stand if he wants to meet with the leaders of Correa scored.
It seems that President Kenyatta has been an agent of that group that had gone down and he is supposed to know that he was being elected as a leader and or not their strokes and not threatening her life in the near future.
All Kenyans have decided to serve them without relying on any side, because after five years again, he requested him to vote for him to serve again.
First round in Nairobi.
