Basically you start at Muhimbili National Hospital there is dangerous weapons.
The two department departments and renovations that are organizing the manufacturing and renovation of all hospitals and the environmental department which has the responsibility of ensuring that the hospital is clean.
The technical director has two departments in the first departments.
And its great responsibilities.
It is together with one, for sure that there are normal renovations that I took a piece of death.
Buildings buildings and machines.
The second responsibility of God is to supervise the development projects they will involve.
And the renovation of the end, Said is good to ask and do organizations that are involved in knowing, which are several in the east, that is when they have decided to get instructions since it is best in Dodoma and Tanga.
The second department is the environment department.
Though the two main responsibilities and the first being together with getting my dream?
This, including monitoring the profession and do the late?
Therefore, they're difficult to want a danger and to do and torched in the line with the procedures that have been put in prices of continuing with renovation of the buildings.
The renovation of infrastructure.
Keenly the table of various machines like the machine to produce OHILL trees, together with the age of age and that is the meaning the service is continuing.
We have managed to visit the hospital.
Which are in the eastern region.
In this period of going on in Pwani I was walking on Morogoro I was rushed to Tanga and said that it will be able to inspect that period we have been able to inspect them as usual.
And the renovations we do so as to improve our ability to improve the state of cleanliness in the hospital and it's not there.
The interests of the best to produce chicken which is used in various parts of the hospital easily.
.
The late God bless your first party which is the best unit of journalism in good fields, together with disaster.
We understand the sweetness of the machines together with travel as they cut into power I have a last book from a reason.
In love, the Almighty God had a lot of money not to be mentioned if they have done various researches in the farm, to go to the maternity ward together with the money.
Similarly, there are some departments that are taking place in a high level like instead of the patient there is a lot of things that I will give them the ones together with them.
From us to be looked upon by the old man?
Similarly, the new unit which was started at the investigation and treatment is the normal system as well as when we know then we should put up until now where our experts see the same week, we do not give the father to be my best because of the patient we had to get into the treatment of diseases to our experts.
We're getting about.
For it has been then for services that are given recently, by listening to the doctors, that is a great use of the services that are supposed to be depending on the level that is usually very little before one international.
