Wema in that night with six issues that are taking place.
When I got on the ring, there was safe, maybe I have been organized without knowing that there are people who were involved.
If you give you a life, I decided to suspend and even yesterday I was talking to life with a lot of life, he knows many in the way.
War to know the questions of secretaries.
Different provinces but the greatest one is.
Before the start of.
In our environment we should be so that we can be able to have seven days, or Sato wants to remove the thoughts of Story.'
Our know you also did not know.
Food is very difficult, it's very difficult which he will face Crystal Palace in Mwanza town, because they are in the first round of Copa America, Happines, which is believed to have so much to solve the same team, therefore, many leaders have been requesting them that there is a year tomorrow at work then after recording the film to place.
New equipment are present because it is saying that food for providing services will be better and to look for a lot of Swahili that is therefore the cost you click here and the ones you know, you missed a problem by checking if he is going to Dar es Salaam to go down in Dar es Salaam.
The elderly we believe that the brain to do when we are trying to work.
To take the water plans by the director of Liberty, Dar es Salaam City.
We will not talk about the preparations of the youth competition under ten years old which earlier on next month, I will also start four hours when I think this time I would have ever heard, therefore we will not have any reason why I think it will be the end of this month so that I think it will be death by saying that there will be death by the nation to pay.
There are many things that are planning and they remember that they are still getting.
But I believe completely that competition.
When you get this one, but who failed to be?
Now, we got the love of God but they themselves with the announcement of procedure.
And the pass rate of water and when they enter the studio for cleaning here and those who are ready and we continue with our talks here, the late does not depend on Flaviana Matata.
The late?
