The Tanzanian Court, Tanzania are fruits after refusing it history.
On the 4th of February, 2015 by Good Citizen in the new constitution.

Any person today has come into social media networks and to read the debate that is taking place about the High Court, it is a must he will get great shock arising from a great language and sometimes a mixture of those who read.
When you pray for all the discussions something that is looking at it is clear that there is a big division between Muslims and Christians about the court of diseases, hatred and rhinos are open without holding back, this is possible when our leaders are telling us to be the father of the nation.
Iniesta, have said the symptoms of the rains are palm and not knowing what we are, where if the nation we have learned how many of them are saying that you do not know well the history of Tanzania or they go to Tanganyika.
Most of the people that came out in these conflicts, some of them have more than 50 years and youths who were born after Tanganyika got its freedom in 2005 till now, it has increased most of our country but up to now, it has never been successful until today?
I don't give a answer to now even though the answer I have.
Some of the contributes in the social media networks and heading to those are Christians are saying that when it comes to the government, though the government does not have religion or Muslims do not give the answer saying why the government is giving billions every year to prevent them to serve their institutions through "signifies.
For those who do not know this contract is that in the year 1993, Tanzania government had signed an agreement with robbery, a contract that was organized by DCosta Maasais', in collaboration with the Minister of State in the Office of the Prime Minister Edward Lowassa.
So that these agreements will be able to implement, the government had to make corrections on article 30 of Education Act, Nooral 25, 1978, in these changes brought in parliament, where Muslims believe that this is U out of the government and hostility.
Not like another one of asking yourself how come your matter like this was called by our parliament without any restrictions, this issue has changed because Muslims read it here and what we have been taught here and what are the dangers of this issue to the future of our nation?
At least you can be asked yourself why then the government did not come up with any plan even if it is not the same as the one of churches, and that it cannot defend the development like those of hunger?
I will not give a answer though I request I have been able to conclude ourselves because the court of this disease is a new thing in this country to an extent of causing conflict, wisely, which right now we are witnessing?
The truth is the colonial era of Tanganyika who found Muslims have joined the judgment of their book.
