
Mwakyembe from President Magufuli has not completed the law.

It has been written by Eric Anthony, Dodoma.

It has been released on 09 / 2016.

The parliament has been told that President John Magufuli has not completed any law by preventing those political parties known as interpreted as she has destroyed politics in the country, but by doing so, he made the reserve to defend the country's constitution.

In addition, politicians and other people have broken the law, they have been advised to go to court or to claim the talks with the president.
That was said the day before yesterday in Dodoma by the Minister for Constitution and law, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, when he spoke to the debate of the law bill of the Public Service Week for the year 2016 which she presented the parliament and discussed for two days nonstop.
Mwakyembe was forced to make sure that after members of parliament from opposition camp, against the minister and the attorney general, George Masaju, that they did not support the bill which was presented in parliament because it has a bad intention.
"Doctor Mwakyembe has this one who released the statement of President Magufuli of preventing the public meetings when he knows it is not constitutional," said the Member of Parliament for Arusha town, Godbless Lema who was supported by Pastor Peter Msigwa of Iringa, all of parliament.
Responding to Doctor Mwakyembe said it is good to listen to the performance of President Magufuli and his promises, because they do not have that authority and that many believe that they are oppressed, have a way to look for rights through the court.
I am not seen to know the death of NSA human beings, yesterday's news, I talked to me and me today I would inform you and let me know your motion, "he said and added that he cannot get them with him because he is looking for them to him, but when he went to him, he stopped him in his footsteps.
After those statements, he emphasized that President Magufuli has not completed the law or constitution in taking the bill, but what he has done is to prevent politics of what he did to change the nation.
That minister said that he depends on wisdom of any party to go to court or to conduct talks with the government, the attorney general, but there is no one who had gone up to the bill that you are brought to parliament.
The statement by Mwakyembe was asked by the attorney general, George Masaju who interviewed the section of the constitution that led by the president and wanted those who believe that they are correct, it is good for the end of the law and went to give him to court.
