I started with the tension about there in Uganda the case against terrorism in that country where seven people out of ten thousand in Kampala city were found guilty of eight days lost their lives and several others being injured among those people, there were two Kenyans and another.
One of the photos of the tape showing my followers by using the genes; a phone calls in court, I remember that using the Somalia phone and Kenya and at this total they were found guilty, he does not know how he is not guilty of the age of God this journey.
Hawa Suleimani, Mohammed Alef Sherief.
And the one has been mentioned that the attacks were planned in the city that caused the city that resulted in the search of the phone, the writer called Kampala, therefore, let me follow up keenly and maybe go to the court in Uganda, let us tell them and follow up on the operation of those attacks.
Since the case it started Shomari, it is getting married to get married.
That came to Uganda to help the Uganda investigation in order to follow up on issues after Uganda wants to follow up on his service and that is when it was discovered that they had gone into Kenya in Nairobi city, before them being able to enter in Uganda to use them.
The sign of the cross in details also said that communication started just after they are getting training and completed the training one day and going to involving all those lovers and the Tanzanians when they started in Kenya in the streets that are near the city of Kampala in the neighboring country.
Lindi is waiting for it to be called or it is claimed.
One week before being implemented is waiting for.
The attacks which was the day of playing the World Cup finals of the world is two thousand.
Between the Hispanic origin will not be a solution as a person to make this attack, give me a lot of each day so that we're being found guilty, what is being found guilty of terrorism was mentioned in Uganda to inform Mister Athumani then she is born with terrorism against this judgment.
You will know what?
Only.
When he arrived in Dar es Salaam, everyone knows that everyone knows all the ones they told them that were found to be taken to the court.
He has said that he had two cases in the first case.
The two case is.
People are not found.
Therefore for the people of Ah.
They do not come from or thinking but I see others.
They were wanting to inspect the business.
If you will be remembered, we have no doubt in office of having a topics that we must have.
It is very high then when you go to Dar es Salaam, there will be a prayer for every time or a.
That is where to build that is a representative to the school but those who have the ability to score twenty years.
Ten?
Therefore, it's a time he did not have its own journey and they put on a topic because it is a must that here to be the law today, then it is, then there is a must.
From the left is the law.
For our law here as they do.
Allowed me.
The biggest time now.
Rich Mavoko will be surprised.
Mama Karen, I sell them to tell you that you have now in the case.
