
Fellow artists to partner, BASATA.
For a long time now, the music industry of the new generation and film to start holding the speed in the country, media stations have been adorned with the complaints of artists that are clear.
In addition to those problems, they have started from in the past, in a different view, to start being heard in many complaints by artists in the recent days followed by a large group of youths living by depending on the art industry in running their daily lives.
Basically there are many problems that have been following up about the artists, apart from them, they have focused on the effects of their work, small prices of work selling, small payments at the exhibition that they come and emerged with phone calls from phones.
Noise for long hours to attend to the radio stations and television to start paying taxes (surgery) to artists as a result of using their work, is one of the big problems in the moment.
When you look at all the problems above, apart from needed legal action and control of policies, it is clear that from coming out to the group of business people that do not invest in the art and they get out in them is profit.
It is common that you love any sign that does not be allowed to invest in any business is after seeing that it has benefits and a big job that he was doing is to ensure that the benefits will last and it is increasing.
For the art sector, we have a lot of business people that are participating in the production of broadcasting production (because of the picture), distribution and selling.
In general there is the probability of the value of art (arts of Art), that is depending on revenue through the artist's work, has many stakeholders and it's bad luck in the environment of our country, these stakeholders should be able to have the strength more than the creativity in the meaning of artists themselves.
The truth is that especially the artists especially the new generation, to be responsible in front of stakeholders involved in the business of their art activities, have continued in history and how the new generation was received among youths and various stakeholders.
Historical music of the new generation since has started in the year 1990, it was focused on looking for consent, while it is seen not to get the support among the effects of many.
Even the radio stations and the business people they were looking on the receiver on the person that was not affected by any meaning.
Groups of artists such as Celine Itatiro, Da Young, Mobolaji Dawodu, Tyrese Gibson, Beautiful Maua Solo, Kissasy and other things was not easy to withstand the environment of the art in those days.
Several times, artists were forced to leave a series of shortages in their work and even what does kneeling at radio stations and to those businessmen so that they can be able to serve that music.
It is this difficult environment in promoting music of the new generation that make artists have been rushed to stakeholders and business people who work with art so as to ensure the "come from."
In that period, it was forced to have an masanii from those stakeholders because they did not be supported, secondly, they did not have the ability to own media houses so that they can be able to market themselves and three their ability will be small to prepare an event to market themselves.
In that meaning, he made a new efforts to boycott the new generation and even the film itself in the map, it is caused by a penalty and more to volunteer, this was a transition period.
It is a transition period for the great work was to start doing the new work of looking for the first of any way so as to later on the basis of making sure that this sector is set up and said that these professions now have already started to stand and be received in all of all of us.
This is where the issue of artists of artists and them having regulations, and regulations is needed so that in the current state, one artist is needed to stand in the art sector against these business people.
These regulations are concerned with procedures of artists in dealing with art business people can be put up by the government because it will be able to enter the market and we must be used by the artists themselves.
As we have explained up there, BASATA has been making noise, and insisted that the process of the establishment of parties and the associations of artists in the country, the work of artists is supposed to go more than this step and start supporting them with all his efforts.
In opinion and counseling, use of mobile phones, 06 / 03 / 03 / = Tanzanian that involve Lootah.
