
Chelsea was not 50 and it's not 50 and said Edward Lowassa today as he was given the membership card of CHADEMA, a day before yesterday and there was also words of Mbowe, Lipumba, Makaidi and insisted.

122, I have used two weeks to think my fate in political politics, I know many have tried to wait for him.

2me, my people have said that you do difficult decisions, I thank my wife and his family have been with me in the period of honor.

348, I thank many people that came out to write and support when I am looking for spongers.

45th elections of the presidential candidate was giving birth to me, the committee of ethics was not supposed to elect Mgongolwa Valley.

54th what happened in Dodoma was called 'Neonatal Sepsis'.

666 of CCM promised to send a few youths to be condemned and later they given a great authority.

724, there was denying 38 candidates of CCM, the right to explain themselves in front of the committee.

8am taking off the primary right to be heard and explain CCM, that I will be in pain and said that I have faith in CCM.

928, CCM I have seen in Dodoma not to be CCM that brought up the politics, I am saying that Uhuru is saying now.

1002 and Mwalimu Nyerere said that CCM is not my father or my mother, I have decided to start today and leave CCM and joined CHADEMA.

Almighty God thank you so much James Mbatia and the leaders of UKAWA for trusting me and asked me.
126i believe in UKAWA we will remove the system of administration of one party, I request that Tanzanians to join us through Skype.

Prevent and I request that Tanzanians to register your voters' vote, they will give birth certificates so that we can be done to CCM.

Approximately 142,500 that I get out of poverty, the leader has shown the poor is wrong and I desire to be rich people.

They have been forced to revenge and the ignorance, has made what to talk to him, I will fall down and you do you know what I was walking?

164,547 came to revenge and the ignorance, has made what to talk to him, I will fall down and you do you know what I was surprised by him?

Spread powdered vinegar on the time they made them to tell me what I've told me.

183L - UKAWA have agreed with resources and human resources should be used for benefits of Tanzanians.

1908, CCM has been having many members of parliament, that has made them to look for more interests more than the nation.

2034, "we have agreed to the parliament of UKAWA entering a parliament in November 2015 that they should look for more interests.

21-wheeled motorcycles are admitted to people that the great strength of the government of UKAWA will look for the interests of the government of UKAWA.

Sh. I said a person who has any evidence about me being involved with Richard Mwaikenda to court, if you don't stay silent.

23r Uhuru had a problem of electricity, we are struggling to bring electricity prices.

Borussia Dortmund won a report that a person who we gave the work of producing electricity is not a problem.

7000 hectares I left power but the problem has increased, my hands is dangerous to him and another evidence.

2671 kilometers, I thank you have forgotten your phone when I saw Lowassa through my child.

2736, the Vice President, Lowassa has come in UKAWA which has come in Cairo with us that we want to know where we come from a small issues of CCM.

28,010,00 ODL students go down, I know Lowassa has come from UKAWA which is striving to be close to Sakali.

When you came to Salum Mwalim today, there is a report that a big part in the provinces of Mbeya, Singida and Arusha electricity has shown.

3077 people in today's day I have peace from my heart or my heart, I assure you of that 'TZ) of CCM is wrong.

3146, that UKAWA will not sell blood but those in power should not take care, the ability to fight with this argument.
3298 shillings, we like to welcoming Lowassa together with family, your friends and a group of people who love you.

3,610 Alu doses of CHADEMA has shown a lot of fear because this is an industrialized country.

349,243, 'many people of CCM have called me have said when welcoming Lowassa is dain.

353,238, 'I understood the responsibility is that he will try that party, but I asked himself when CCM did not love CHADEMA?

367,888 offenders were called Lowassa in this table that it was not a foolish thing, we have carried out a lot of violence on night and that of them.

376,000 and you have talked to the courage, we cannot see our new things like we will continue thinking about the bad issues of discrimination.

3890,536 billion, 'the political party is people, I heard one million people I wanted it to be the madness of?

3970,046, 'I am the leaders of UKAWA that we don't know how to revenge.

400s' have witnessed the group of groups inside CCM and the others are disappointed and many are complaining, see the truth but they don't have freedom to vote.

4146, 'we have witnessed the group of groups inside CCM and the others are inspiring.

4212,046, "I was welcomed Lowassa, has been given his money, we would be welcomed to millions of Naira.

43,000,00 Tanzanian shillings' party of political parties is people, I heard one million people to find him I am a madness of?

44 seconds.

455,731, 'it has helped to put up a sentence, member of parliament Ole Medeye and many members of parliament are continuing to welcome him.

467,888 offenders, CHADEMA did not lead paper in Mbozi district, is being led by the constitution and regulations of the party.

47 million shillings, I thank President JK, it has helped to build the opposition towards the general elections this year.

4890,536 billion, Lowassa succeeded in difficult decisions today because there is her husband.

4949 years of Zaire, Lowassa when he complains from Dodoma we were following that decision.

50 / = shillings' has helped to put up a sentence, member of parliament Ole Medeye and many members of parliament we will continue to welcome.
