
Most of asking for Zito, Minister Nape gave three challenges.
Peter Luninga, Citizen of Msimbazi, annamatinde @ gmail.
Mwanza.
While giving greetings on behalf of Tanzania AT at the meeting of the commemoration of the world freedom day that took place nationally in Mwanza City yesterday, Mengi, mentioned those challenges as a technical hitch in the parliamentary sessions, law of crime laws and the bill of media services.
"In order for the media to implement their duties well, it is a must that it doesn't fulfill the freedom of getting information because Nape is our one in the media industry we believe that they will help us in these three issues," said Mengi while looking at Nape who did not like in the hall.
"It is a must that the government to understand that the media is a bridge between the government and the citizens, the media is a big donation that gives the government the ability to know the citizens say what about the leadership and policies, so its spherical guidelines," added Mengi.
He said it is the responsibility and responsibility of the government to protect the security of the media and journalists, by making laws that involve the media so that the right to get and provide information to the community.
However, Mengi has appealed to the media and journalists about his intention to fulfill the responsibility of professionalism, integrity and management of justice and truth when they receive bribes from within and outside the media industry.
"The media must they are detected in the authority's authority to rebuke bribery and other evil deeds, in the community to evade bribery and write news without fear and protecting them," he said.
The murder of albinos has been blamed about events of the killing of people with skin disability (albino) and minerals, Reginald Mengi, gave a challenge to journalists and the press (not in the picture), by leaving reports of events that are arrested by cutting the Albino organs instead the primary schools had kidnapped them.
"War against albino killings were not allowed to succeed, if we will continue to write news that they have been arrested on accusations of getting the physically challenged people or being found in the government without involving themselves in crime," he said and added.
"Or those who use the Albino Buffalo that poachers will not be found because they have money from power?"
While getting to the media owners, that chairman said it is their responsibility to give them a good environment for working journalists, including the education sector in order to implement the responsibilities and responsibilities of work.
Nape is putting on himself the burden on various topics that were given by the speakers of the meeting, Nape gave the responsibility of looking for a solution to the parliamentary standing committee by urging stakeholders in the information sector to form a special team to Dodoma to inspect the operations of the parliament hall.
"You love the special team to go to Dodoma through the performance of the parliamentary committee, to meet with members of parliament and journalists who are witnessing the way of implementation of those decisions, to know the challenges and help them the government we will be discussed as a solution.
Even so, the Minister who insisted that the decision to prevent parliamentary activities is paid directly or not government, but the parliament was taken, while promising to present the parliament the media bill in this year 2016 / 2017.
"The bill will be advised that the law will remove all legal laws against freedom of the media, the fifth phase will supervise that because the media industry is stable, the court is ready to fulfill the responsibility of giving the rights to all groups within the society and their rights being violated.
"The court is ready to stand at the center for those who are claiming that rights and alleged to have that rights, by giving decisions that do not depend on any side without favoring any side," said Judge Makaramba, and raising him in the hall.
