
The councilor will contribute to 100 desks.
He said that the government that is in power is here in power.
Joseph Lyimo, Simanjiro District, Engutoto and Brenda Kharono.
Simanjiro Council of Loiborsiret Ward residing along the District Council of Simanjiro District, Manyara Region, Ezekiel Lesotho (CCM), has supported the directive of President John Magufuli by giving 100 desks to four primary schools in his ward.
While entertaining the new heads of provinces, President Magufuli ordered to make sure that until the end of May, there is no student found anything in the class for lack of desks.
The famous councilor known as the name of the number said, by supporting that directive he urged them to support his friends that they made to get those desks for the primary schools.
He said that Nakamoto: He will go 50, Loiborsiret Ward residing (30), Nahawara (10) and at least 10.
"The government is in power is of" TOKIU "," therefore we join together to work, "he said.
During the occasion to hand over the desks that took place in Kijitonyama Secondary School they will go and attended by the district commissioner, Mahmoud Kambona, the leaders of the council and residents of that county, the number of desks in that ward is 65.
Before handing over the desks to the head of the district, who also handed over to the head teacher, will give the citizens to contribute towards education by making a fundraising that will enable them to get 98 bags of cement and 5800,000 American dollars because of the renovation of three classrooms.
Speaking at that event, Kambona, urged those residents to support the development issues because it is the responsibility of the leaders and the citizens in general to fulfill the needs of contributing desks.
He wanted the community to enable farmers to promote such donations so as to enable them to give them their children's important needs in schools and treatment so as to ensure they give their responsibility.
The chairman of Rahaleo primary school he will go back, Yohana Dumu said he will serve the parents and citizens to contribute to the development of that school and to ensure that students get food at the day in school.
