
How to cross the reserve area.

Faith in us.

Before going to the stall there are important things that the scorer is required to have already been accepted even before taking the decision to build the stall.

The type of chicken that is now?
The system of looking at.
The number of chicken that is happening.
The aim of!
The type of contraception is that now.
When I think that kind of chicken that is needed to prevent and mean to know if you want to prevent it?

Meat of meat / = shillings.
Stem cells of eggs are there.
Chickens in eternal life.

Because every type of chicken you will be for example, if you want to prevent it, you must be able to prepare and build in the Zakhem Grounds in Kinyagigi.
The system of separation.
Here it is also important because every system can have kind, number and an aim of!
When it comes from here in this system, what are needed they are preparing themselves so as to look for himself.

Through this system, the chicken do not do not to go to care for them.

Stem cells to cook with this system do not be free but it comes out so that nobody would recognize them.

Although every system has its advantages and disadvantages of her.

This will go now on how to build a good stall.

Before all, so that the stall can be better because it is evident.

Part of the availability of water.
The Serena Hotel in which there is the availability of electricity.
Part of the road is good to make sure the customers get easily even if you want to bring food to be available.
In the field there is enough security.
The Serena Hotel which did not have great wind.
The tent.
Primary, the foundation of a good stall is a must that you have been built very well, meaning there is no right time to cause their stall.
The wall, the wall is not registered in which it has not been removed and also in a wall of the wall, so as to prevent pest together with the bacteria is very important because without making pain, pest and even others do not have the chicken.
According to me, the stall of Kakingo said it would not be told if he was not a vibrant listener or even though they are required to put aside if 5CCM members from cleaning up so as to help in cleaning and also helps the chicken to get injuries.
I don't know that the stall should have a new iron sheets, which does it mean to prevent disability and water to enter the tent.
They are complaining, we must look at the wind when it's heading to the stall, how are you supposed to pass the wind because it gives them high prices to enable them to get enough climate, to get them from outside the stall.

And it is a must that the stall can have in the Zakhem stadium in the right together with what is needed to be enough for the chicken to be available in the field.

Also, it is a must that the stall can have light weight during night.

He hurts me, this is a very high table and its work is to put up water into a broad way and obey them wherever you get in the stall, it makes him to avoid diseases in the tent.
