Sumaye congratulated the fear of politics.
Jide 17, 2014.

The retired prime minister, Frederick Sumaye, has left the wave of politics among the leaders of the opposition parties in Mwanza province.
Sumaye, one of the politicians who mentioned to vie for presidency through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in the general elections of the year 2015, did a four day tour in the province, last week.
Together with other things, Sumaye used that opportunity to launch the Tanzania Youth Development Institute (TCDC) Mwanza branch.
At all times he got an opportunity to address a youth meeting at different times in the city, Sumaye said he does not have the aim of looking for political popularity as it can be thought by some people.
However, some of the leaders of the opposition parties in Mwanza province have explained to see that tour of Sumaye being involved in a special strategy of the bridge, a resident magistrate's heading to the general elections this year.
In a special interview with Raia Mwema, Mwanza city the day before yesterday, the secretary of the office of the member of parliament for Nyamagana, Mwokozi, Robert (CHADEMA), has said he is looking for political popularity as a criterion to encourage the development of youths and the fight against evil deeds in the country.
"In this intention of Sumaye, it will be able to build politics among the youth, especially by considering that he has already announced his intention of wanting the presidency," said Mwokozi, and continuing.
"Said the tour of Sumaye was the right to give him an illusion and he is doing so after realizing that many days of these days are youths and that is why they want to be close to the youth.
"Sumaye said that he is doing is to encourage the development of youth and the fight against crime and I believe his intention is focused on looking for political popularity."
The view of Mwarija is also discussing him and the strategy of controlling the youth due to bringing the great strength to the youth who are members of CCM.
I am saying the tour of Sumaye here in Mwanza province also has a picture of preventing youths, because if you look for many youths who attended the meetings, the members of CCM party and even people who attended the meeting are leaders of the Youth Union of CCM (UVCCM).
"Now through that procedure you think the youth? Is not true, it is clear that he is seeing the youths of other political parties and decided to continue with his party," he said, "he said.
However, the issue of that Sumaye is complaining to youths of other political parties which have no strength due to the fact that the youths who attended the meeting with leaders of CCM are students of schools and different colleges that are not facing the ideology of any political party.
On the other side, Mwikabe has said he fears that tour by Sumaye saying that it can affect the power of the opposition parties which they are continuing with the efforts to strengthen the political parties in Mwanza and the lake region in general.
"Magufuli's tour can't affect the opponents for the next general elections, especially in the presidential elections, but at the parliamentary level and councilors we know well," he said.
But on the other side, Mwarija is saying that the youths and the citizens in general have no reason to refuse to receive funds that are in their hands from politicians who are looking for a political popularity, not being keen to choose a person with the ability to bring development to the truth.
"I urge you to tell the citizens that this period of heading to the general elections there are people who are coming with their money, people should take it only, but in elections to make sure they be careful," he has emphasized.
On his part, the Commissioner of Alliance for Democratic Change (ADC) Lake Region, Shabani Itandula, has said he does not have a true intention of encouraging the youth development in the country but the aim is to be able to register a way of deciding during the next general elections.
