
More than 400 get employment after the factory.
Wealth of millions of money was sent yesterday in different cases of fire, he from Kisuma area, more than 400 workers have been left without employment after the factory for making mattresses and be easily sold at nine o'clock in the morning.
"There is no work that is implemented last night.
The guards who attended the time they felt the fire is going on, "said Mister Jaula), the manager of Jichunge.'
"There was no one who was injured during that incident, and we thank Zohra Moore (TCL)," said Mister Patel said he did not know what caused the fire.
"It is something sad, we don't know what was the cause of the fire.
I gave them everything yesterday before going to home. I don't happen, "he said.
He added that the fire was caused by a huge loss not only to his family but also to the whole country.
"I am giving you to you for you, but I don't have the desire to do because it is supposed to wed in the factory located in order to enable them to build them again," he said.
The company who is under the Kisuma road heading to Abu Dhabi was making thousands of iron sheets and sell thousands of every day.
The Indiana governor, Jack Kabende who arrived at the area said the fire had caused a huge loss to investment in that area.
"Many people from that area were depending on this company to pay food every day, it is something sad, something that is happening like this," said elsewhere, more than 15 families living in Osward, the area of Osward in the area of Ikunda Lyimo.
The fire was received at ten o'clock in the morning on Tuesday and caused a loss of millions of money.
While confirming the incident, the Deputy Head of the police from Jihadist area Mister Gilbert Kadama said that the fire source is still seen.
Moreover, he also pointed out that currently the police officers have started investigations so as to identify the cause of the fire which has caused a big loss.
"The fire was true because it was spread very fast and brought down those houses before the residents of things were inside those houses," said Mister Nyanga.
