NEC can use billions to BVR?
Maximilian Arnold, 2014.

Recently, the National Electoral Commission (NEC) is expecting to start the registration of the permanent registration exercise by using the new system of "Bieldt.
Earlier this exercise will be held if the trials in three provinces and later the work is expected to take place on January and February next year in all provinces, especially in Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar.
The goal is to ensure that every citizen who is participating in the opinion polls and later in the 2015 elections.
When we go to this course, the investigation is good and we look at the whole issue of buying of this BVR puts on how the tender is organized by NEC because this exercise is being faced by questions that are still not stolen.
Earlier on the South African company known as Lihamile by 14323 million at a price of 816 dollars every year, a total of 816 million dollars.
Suddenly we were told by NEC in March this year that the company has been given a tender to BVR puts 500 shillings at a cost of 11769 million dollars, that is a cost of 33 million dollars.
It should be understood that the company last year brought to the Mozambique National Electoral Commission to sell 200 million dollars per day, as Mozambique had conned 200 megawatts why I don't be self-200 machines for what is coming from?
The press listening to the company so as to get the answer but they were told to go to NEC who we are not aware if NEC gave the answer.
NEC got the cost of BVR from 84 million dollars to 117 million, after the authority of managing the public procurement (PPRA) will supervise the previous tender due to the problem. "
That took place is that the first time the contract was announced in January last year by a union of M / S / = Tanzania and the IT system that won.
That is when we asked himself, why the municipal was forced to prevent the tender that was given by NEC but this kind of NEC is of human beings or the cause of PPRA, what are we waiting for them.
The truth is that more than six months after PPRA said that it was doing investigation about the tender to BVR puts him, citizens is still there in the darkness where NEC claimed that it has not done an offense, but when the other suspect sees his judgment?
That is why in March this year PPRA started that investigation, this is after the authority allowed the party and our journalists who are unable to stop the truth.

So, the government has resolved to know the fact that since last month the government has already given NEC a 21 billion shillings (5 billion shillings) due to the budget passed up to April this year when the work was finalized.
Those, the government will get a look from where the situation is now clear that sponsors are annoyed instead they have started to prevent the donations and these are the results of the country depending on how to run the government.
For example this is importation of BVR puts some of the writers to prevent them and educate them that the government has ordered NEC to reduce by half importation of BVR due to lack of lack.

We are told that NEC has been urged to reduce the number of BVR from 500 to 1000 shillings, this is after the government had a shortage of value of 558 million dollars (approximately 50 billion shillings) that are listed in the government's budget.
Donor countries have said that they will take the money at the same time when they receive the results of the investigation and payment of the Escrow account to Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL) to the Pan African Power Solutions Tanzania Limited (PAP).

They want it is the results of investigation, that is a step that will be taken after investigation is complete.
When we were read about sponsors, the truth is that sponsors are the sponsors who said that they don't affect our money because of your embezzlement, they have showed up and said that they are ready to cater for us if the machines will have bought from their country and later we will be able to pay for two times.
Reports are saying on May 19 and 22 this year, the France and Canada got a letter from the Prime Minister that they are ready to get 212,333 in a period of 60 days.
