It is my hope that your condition is a good thing that you want.
Welcome to welcome me in sports we have said to control of sports is the stage of the mwanaspoti newspapers this period it gives every Tanzanian shillings every time.
Participating in the topic.
Concerning the sports issues, the clinic will not have taxes as it is the fees that is still ongoing in a city of Mwanza as seen in the scene.
Various universities.
Stakeholders to give them an opportunity to give their views about different sports issues today, we should talk about what we are in the university.
In Mount Meru Hotel which is in the city of Mwanza town, even here to the stakeholders who will be able to contribute to them, you will be able to contribute to if statements do not like to look at if you want to look at what they have many fans.
In this region of East Africa and between Simba and Yanga two times when you meet Faiza as a team, I will also get a team from the game but I will also get a good example, a situation that will continue until when the late does not take a good example soon in the match of Simba and Yanga.
Yanga scored one goal but we tried to inform us with me about it does not want to hear that it comes Yanga for players from Simba.
Similarly, this one comes back immediately when he has already been renovated using the problem today, because the team of Simba and Yanga one thing is that there will be a lot of weapons but when two do not get married and when you get out, this will be after that, he has spoken.
Week of Mount Meru.
While with those stakeholders they were presented on behalf of the leadership of this college of Mount Meru as he died.
The mobile phone has said that you are saying what we want to go and when you want to go and then your phone or a network?
Yes is the right answer that mentioned there.
Then without losing when the late does not go to the country directly.
According to the chief speakers as he was passing through sports, there are chief speakers here in the country Mary Diamond and because he has already started a question on the money and Mary went to ask for him because he refused.
Thank you?
Hayatou, will start by saying that.
Therefore, if they are.
Simba and Yanga.
They don't want to fail because you are among them, there is no one who accepts that news from here is not seen.
And an event has been trying to agree that in sports or a thing he doesn't accept to be no longer.
But these people do not accept?
At the time they are playing in their match one, when they play a must, there is a certain thing, that's an issue that has led us to look for a look for what they are.
First, with my thoughts, you know what we are doing this two teams have not seen.
That is on the side of us who don't know and that is why you find the time those players are unable to pay for a witch doctors.
You will find you on the goals.
They love Michelle.
And news that we must be able to agree on it is because we have told them that we are not there is something that someone can be surprised and if we look at to maintain Christians we see why we get him, what she gets.
When we saw that support, we see that he was one of the whole issue in witchcraft.
Another?
These people are saying that there is a must that there is a must.
Food and a woman of Tanzanians or Africa that you like to talk about it.
We believe that so much the issues of witchcraft now because we believe that superstition can be able to do so, you believe that superstition can be able to help us because if we believe it is something that you will help us because we believe that here they are seen to play here they are seeing the guest.
When it comes back to one of the person, he doesn't know because he is ready to know where he has already been defeated by the witch doctors when they were found, she know what is something.
The eyes not starts that maybe this which was a big way than my one that I have now in their performance because they have not seen, you find the ones that you ask you are the ones who don't know what they were found and they don't know.
That is a problem or doesn't have this because they don't understand what I think I think to get to all.
