
A bad behavior more than getting.
Women when you enter into the life of love, their expectations is to get true the truth from their fiancée.
Joy by Antoine Griezmann.
However, there are men who have failed to show their lovers, love and therefore bring him.
They want the men of this kind, it's your popularity that you are self-employed or their aim is to taste the person, Tunda then they believe in mind, something that affects their love life.
Sponsors of love issues are saying in order to try to get married that do not have love with love if they want to avoid being left.
"It is dangerous for a woman to be responsible for a prestigious position and went to without a man caring about the pain when I got this week because a man does not have a true love with the woman," said Mary Kazaula and she has no love to be true by the woman, "said Mary Lugusi.
"That is why we request all advisers to know that, even before giving you a lot of love, and make decisions to allow me to go for your parents, so that he does not love you, it is good that he does not love you for one heart," he says of Muthir.
The habit of putting you to do that life, Miss Muthir says that the behavior of a man is very important to be considered if even a draw.
"This is because there are men who have a good shape, with good income and good income but they do not have the qualifications to be called a husband because of their dirty behavior.
There is no one who doesn't want to give him a man with a dirty habit, if you will look for a chapter and then do a decision to get married, you will have written the grave, "he said.
These days, the said of Muthir, there have been changes of its kind to women, most of them don't like getting married to men who do not have work, an issue that is important to consider.
"The concept of accepting to get married to any man in order for the project to get married that it has been identified, it has been called by when the man's goal is the one with a dream of doing life, his wife and children," he insisted.
According to Pasilida Bandari and Vernon Fernandes of Free Market, the women are in order to avoid men who do not be patient in life because it is easy to make sure.
"We know that all the days you will not hesitate to arise from health problems or financial services, for example, you can get into marriage life but by bad luck you have not been working, a man with love is true and you are supposed to understand and be your side.
If he will stop giving birth, it is not supposed to be a husband and many can arise when you need to fight, "explained Pasilida Bandari and bake.
Basically, I have explained, a man will be patient if he has a lot of love for a man with a lot of love and he will be patient and he will be ready to live with his wife in any situation.
He says there are men who don't know the value of his wife and they are not supposed to be the husbands of people. "The right is the one that is saying that his wife is a solution to her life.
The person who believes that, without his wife cannot be for now, there are some who believe even without women they can have good life and these are dangerous, "he said.
Pasilida Mafoto is saying that a woman is married and a man with this concept, will bring back home and he will not be seven for a divorce even when a small issue that can be resolved for talks.
"That is why I have said, a correct man to give him a chance to be the husband who is about the value of a wife, who is able to endure what is a wife who is going to complete his life," Masau boasted.
Msama said that in accordance with the bishop of Muthir, women are forced to avoid men with mental disabilities, "men with mental disabilities are those who engage in marriage life have not be able to stop because they have already been called their husbands.
These are the men who do not be called by women without getting married, they don't like to listen to their fiancée who like to do a decision without involving their wives, who don't know their brothers and how they do not care about their families, "he said Mrs Muthir.
According to Pasilida Mafoto, couples that live in accordance with the basis of writing God, they have a very small opportunity to welcome him in their families to respect God, they have a very small opportunity to welcome them in their families different from the couple.
"That is why there are other people when getting married can get married and get married or do not know what their marriages are usually very happy and last," he said.
Miss Muthir has said other factors to consider with a man looking at a good husband is a person who loves children, advice and no one doesn't know the conflicts. "A man does not love them and continue with conflicts that are not very dangerous.
A snared of a man he likes to do even after requesting him to wait, she cannot be a good husband, "he explained.
According to this expert, good husband is supposed to be on the forefront to look for conflicts, instead, apart from men who desire to do the love before seeing them saying there is a big opportunity to make sure there.
"A person wants to participate in sex with you before the marriage cannot be a good husband.
Look at what is happy to sit with you and exchange ideas and do not stay, two and do not love her, "he said and added many men being bullied.
