The Council of national sports' council has met with different sports stakeholders in Ruvuma province with the aim of collecting their views about this sports is to check the way to run away games and own a big campaign to encourage the community to deal with malaria diseases which is still unknown.
To recognize the importance of the community to own games and running their candidate by partnering with the International Football Federation in collaboration with the International Trade Organization located in Ruvuma province and met with different sports stakeholders, the aim is to look at how to reach sports in the community.
The member of the meeting stakeholders of sports met here in the city of Moshi when I met with a senior sports officer from the United Nations Development Council with the aim of wanting to know.
Why was there and the need to meet with these stakeholders is expected to collect their views.
It is important to have a problem and.
We would love.
It is a problem.
Chairperson of CHADEMA.
Thank you for more events when I was with the road.
In the game compared to anyone, the news has that will and when they are on holiday on the community as we unable to withstand the same level up to the national level.
And private organizations are there.
It has also been said.
I don't know.
Stakeholders I request that you are asked with great faith in that plan that it will help in a large extent to be eaten by a large extent that already it has already died in Ruvuma province.
I believe in this way but it has been able to come up and how to get a check here, we believe that the daughter of the scandal involving themselves and Ras Makunja has a report to have changes in the game.
Believe that he has said that sports we have used students and teachers before that community as a whole.
It is easy for in the end in brackets as the first one.
My heart will not have!
Here we're with the teachers.
The new plan has aimed at reaching more children in promoting sports talents and bias against five provinces where in Dodoma province, primary schools have been postponed under that project of Paris Saint Germain from Ruvuma secondary school which will reach out to more than two million children.
From the ones he met here in town, I have talked to what the best player is Mchaga!
