
Government, producers will bring down the price of.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

I was published today May 11, 2016.

Government and non-communicable diseases in the world have agreed to reduce the fertilizer price by an average of 25 to 31 percent, being a reduction of 30 percent of the price of last year.

Speaking at the second meeting of the Marketing and distribution company of Africa, the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Charles Tizeba said the step was arrived at two months ago after the government meeting with those producers and made a difficult decision.
"We have done talks with producers of all those types, within two months ago, we have decided to reduce the fertilizer price by an average of 25 percent to 31 percent, this is a big loss it has never happened," said Doctor Tizeba.
He said that the step came as a result of the fertilizer price in the country to be high and therefore many farmers fail to withstand the cost of purchasing and thus making production of crops being low and sometimes the country has a problem of hunger in some areas.
"Example, fertilizer of the port of Dar es Salaam is one of its cost without tax and tax is equivalent to 49,700 dollars (equivalent to 49,700 million shillings), a price has been three times, here there is a dirty game," said Doctor Tizeba.
The price of one pension fund of 50 years for now is between 600 millimeters and 60,000 shillings the price that the farmer is big compared to their income.
He said that the government has seen that is why now it has reduced that the influx of tax tax from 16 types that were there to have 11 types, has reduced the cost of that fertilizer and the cost of motorbike riders from the port to the provinces.
The representative of the World Marketing Company (CRCC) that organized the meeting, Chris Mauki, said more than 300 participants from different areas in the world that are involved in the production, distribution and business business has participated.
