
The presidential candidates of CCM and CHADEMA will stop the debate on the debate that was organized by Hanscana.

The presidential candidates of the United Republic of Tanzania through the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Doctor John Magufuli, together with Edward Lowassa of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), have been unable to participate in the special debate of the presidential candidates that was organized by the institution together with other stakeholders.
The debate which took place at the Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar es Salaam city today was aired directly by the Star TV station, Anna Mghwira from the ACT-Wazalendo party, Hashim Rungwe, the only presidential candidates who were given out officially and participated in that debate.
However, Rungwe arrived at the time that debate is going on where previously it will be informed that he was surprised by being late because the debate has started, he was arriving at the Julius Nyerere International Airport from Mtwara.
In that debate, various questions were asked including the whole concept of change which previously was being used by parliament and then spread in other parties, has got different meanings in the presidential candidates of ACT-Wazalendo, Anna Mghwira and the Chief Executive of ADC.
According to Anna Mghwira, the concept of change in ACT-Wazalendo is an alternative argument that aims at addressing the community problems, "said ACT-Wazalendo has emerged the ability to increase production through human resources like forests, minerals and investment in agriculture.
"The best use of resources and investment in agriculture is to increase the national income and therefore it will make access to better community services like education and health," said Maboko.
On his part, Chief has said that the concept of change in accordance with ADC is to eliminate the disease, ignorance, and poverty, he said change is not to remove CCM from power and then lead the country through the foundations of CCM.
About the union, Chief has said that ADC will expand all the problems so that the union can be able to provide right to all people different from the moment, "said the union are required to supervise and implement the rights of the right to all as well as providing social services closer to all sides of the union.
"We ACT-Wazalendo we have said that the union is a must for him to get the consent of the citizens constitution, different from it is now on issues of citizens claiming that the Tanganyika or Zanzibar government with full authorities are clear that the union we have need change so that citizens can benefit," said Maboko.
The presidential candidate through CHADEMA Party, Mecky Maxime, together with that he was not one of the speakers at the debate, he got an opportunity to answer some of the issues of citizens such as good health, he said his government will not use drugs at the public hospitals to become good products as it is now.
