
The government gets us fear about availability of oil.
The government has removed fear and confirm to prevent the passengers that use air transport in the country, that air oil is to meet the expenditure for a period of 14 days when another cargo of oil are continuing to get in the country.
This has been said by the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo when he made a visit today in Dar es Salaam city to inspect oil tools to see the state of availability of oil in the country after knowing some of the cargo of those fuel that were affected by oil.
As a period of the solar energy there will be able to do a journey like their schedule had been planned and we shouldn't be worried, we believe that oil is expected to last within the period of 14 days when the step of other cargo entering the country are going on, "said Professor Muhongo.
That tour by the minister, Professor Muhongo, explains the discovery of the aircraft that was carried out in the country earlier on May this year, which is not correct for the intended purposes due to taking place with oil oil.
In addition, Professor Muhongo has urged the Sahara Energy Company Limited with its headquarters in Nigeria which will be able to sell the oil in the country, to stop its activities immediately until the issue is resolved.
It has been seen that it's not the first time for that company to bring dirty oil in the country, a step that made that Minister to take that government's stand until the issue is resolved.
Speaking about the step by the state of oil in the country, the acting executive director of Tanzania Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency, Michael Mjinja asserted the availability of air fuel which is expected to end in the next two weeks from now.
Mjinja added that they are making sure that the shortage of oil is not available again in the country where they are continuing to cooperate with the company of Total and SP-Rwanda which until now are with clean water that is acceptable in use.
On his part, the Executive Director of the Pepsi company located in Kigamboni area in Dar es Salaam city, Abbas Kandoro, has said that his company has enough opportunity to improve all fuel which could be used in order to produce all the companies that got into the oil due to putting clean oil in the country.
The minister's tour, Professor Muhongo has helped a visit from five companies of oil including Puma Energy, GAPCO, Oil Company, Nyati Spirit Tanzania Mhe.
By Eleuteri Mangi - Maelezo.
