
The wind has gone into, Markhiya, Lowassa as he loves you to go to CHADEMA, he found himself in trouble.

The Lowasa camp for now, stomach, due to the big division that emerged was divided into two teams, the first team was made up with retired leaders including he was made by retired leaders among them a lot of financial and they live in depending on the age of Lowasa.

The second team was formed by Markhiya, Lowassa who are those with reliable information from the camp is saying that Marsa of Lowasa led by the head of Lowasa in conjunction with the president's wife, Edward Lowassa who did not want him to go the opposition.

1 billion, the friends of Lowassa are saying that he wasn't great joy by Lowassa until when he gets a bad advice to Lowassa until when she lost a direction inside CCM, a situation that caused his name to be defeated by Lowassa until now, what happened it is against him.

2 - the opposition parties have no commitment to Lowasa in ensuring that they need her money and his fans so as to commend the number of political seats and the presidential votes are surprised when Lowassa received all parties especially CHADEMA, see Lowassa as angels.

3 - the friends of Lowasa have used a lot of money during the process of CCM, Honorable Lowassa assured them that he will not remain inside the party and that even if he didn't read the rights inside that party and instead they will not look for a decision taken by the party and he didn't see that the decision made by the party was correct because their friend had a secret agenda by partnering with his friend.

4 -. Many followers who were on the side of Lowassa are satisfied with the appointment of CCM where they've appointed John Magufuli that the presidential candidate is saying they need CCM to appoint a person with the decision and therefore, they are saying that Lowasa have not allowed him as his followers will follow the opposition.

As a result of those statements, Lowassa's friends have said that they are not ready to continue losing money to sponsor the person who does not have a stand even so, they are saying that they are ready to help Lowasa in how to leave politics.

The white group Mwanachoma on his side is insisted that Lowassa will go to the opposition where he has been promised to get a chance to be the presidential candidate.

That tension has left Lowassa in eternal peace and her friends that have helped him in every situation and that they have promised to help him in his life outside politics or to continue with his advice.

As a result of that situation, Lowassa was unable to complete his trip with CHADEMA as he had planned and instead he continues to sign him and he left her stomach.

It is obvious that Lowasa will get given advice from his friends more than the advice of he popular while in this, the contribution of the head is evident, it seems to be the great friend of Ambassador White House, others were unable to be careful.
