RC has ordered the defender to be paid for 22 months.

It has been written by Lucas Raphael.

It has been released, October 25th, 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Tabora, Aggrey Mwanri has directed the executive director of Tabora Municipal Council, Don Bosco, to pay all the salaries of 22 months their dues amounting to 660,000 shillings from the defender of Ndwika Primary School, itus Augustine Paul (58), instead of continuing to beat him.

Mwanri gave the directive recently in a public meeting that took place in Ndunguti road that is in the municipality after that head of province addressing the citizens and gave an opportunity to ask questions or explain their problems.
After the defender gave his complaints, Mwanri called the executive director of the county, Hamis Kasibu, so as to give an explanation of those allegations, where he admitted the defender, lack of salaries and leadership of that government's leadership for 22 months.
The councilor of that ward, Seleman Maganga, explained that earlier that defender was getting his salary as usual, but later he left to pay for the excuse of the government of the village not to receive any financial money from the Municipal Council.
The acting director of that municipality, Chengula speaking, said the issue is under the leadership of the school and the village of the village is supposed to pay its salaries all from the defender.
After that explanation, Mwanri said that because the village's government has not got the distribution of their empowerment from the municipal council, that debt came directly from the office of the director of the municipality and the procedure of payments starts immediately even if it is little.
So as to ensure that the debt will be paid, Mwanri, directed the District Commissioner of Tabora, Queen Mlozi, joining and gave birth of that payment.
Speaking to the defender, he said that he started the work in 2014 for an agreement to be paid 30,000 shillings per month and is being paid several months but after that he did not be paid again but he was told to pay the money that was found.
"After getting ten months without being paid I had decided to stop working but later I was decided to stop him again as they promised to sign him a little time until the debt cannot be implemented until today and I'm still at work," he said.
