The effects of.
There are many factors that can cause fire as he knows the acting commissioner of the army.
In all the fire accident people are looking for things.
First thing is looking for every place.
First where there is a terrorist which is a man it started professionally.
A strong man.
First, therefore, in large numbers, this issue has not been unable to prevent it is wrong and Christ, because we can look for all big houses where the fire started with.
They can be able to make it seen on the fire there is more better.
All permits.
But also, if you talk to the head to go back to now, it is no money for his wife there is nothing to eat with who?
There are many points that can be avoided.
I request the fire has started here, but it means that artists and interview do we look at the same time.
In a question that there is caused the president of the country because of reading it.
The representative of the member of the delegate from the chief chemist of government will take a company.
And Christian this month at 38,667 that will take poison that can take place in four different areas different from there and to test for money at the office, when the right time comes from.
It does not have natural resources within the presence of these things, we will go to measure and say that here is in large numbers and completely is the remains of a child which does not affect the user's office in peace, we have been separated because it is unacceptable, maybe a person's office.
Because of them we have been doing badly in the evidence they are holding on meat and court you can help.
Therefore, for a short time.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we do not see the effects on how we are doing so not to do not.
This is not a problem.
It is important for every Tanzanian to use the quality equipment in the use of electricity production so as to avoid effects that can arise from your house because the power of TANESCO was there and if it is now, what is still needed for time to time.
We themselves as we say that we can put devices inside our houses which have the best, welcome him and I urge our colleagues not to do their work in countries for some time all equipment that enter the use of electricity within coughing, even so that all devices that get in many things have the best.
