What is the elderly man open that election.
The government has prepared it the first to know.
This means this word was supposed to be popular among the parliament of the constitution.
This is the money that is at great age if he has called me and let me go back here so that we can be able to look for them so that we can look at with him in this behavior here to let's go up because I want this president.
In the opinion.
Even now they are looking at home to go to the legs.
Then the death of a Swahili language looking for words?
Thank you so I don't understand what I wrote on this picture.
The late?
The word to follow the use I love first, I want me to tell you the most popular people although this word was used as a lot of words of getting a message but in the ears of people, this word I hope you can get married.
By when they got believe in then it has given you the word and let it see it was true.
It is.
Chicken failed to be held.
That is just inside the price when the price did not agree or be found when you look at the issue that it brings you between two sides, because there are people want to see that she does not want to enhance security to this.
The late God is right now, to do that you are told when you are told where you will go or even if I am pleased with you, but every news is required to make your efforts to follow it, there is a way you will see you.
I was told when he was told to the journalists' books from Congo is looking for Miss vegetables, it's also a reporter to the book when I love you, but I don't know how this is a person who did, but I don't know how you will go through the reason there is a foolish thing.
In the writing that maybe be tough, they said that I saw it so that I must look for a lot of things for example governors who do not understand because you are looking for words that you have decided but we are also proud of using the words that they did not have failed but here.
Now he was.
It has not been commanded?
Nusra on time I am an old man.
In the past we were following.
And the machine that you are living in Tabora, the verses of his position close to each house was sick.
We have we organized and we are going.
Angela claimed that the strike is bringing together my brothers that you are supposed to do.
Remember to let me remember my wife is at the end of us praising himself, he has told him that she will have married, you will be in the fight against the person of my God, I do not fight with my heart and let me talk.
The government is possible that maybe the beginning it started last.
We were with the last constitution of the day has brought a new computer to the government in short, I would like to call for my brothers to look for me for my teachers' and coldness.
When you get you, it is impossible.
The greatest one is.
Mwasabite said that it is not true that the promise that was given by giving out advice was given to a very big government, there are delegates who had the delegates of that commission according to the judge Judge Warioba that this is the opinion polls like anything but the government was.
That is waiting for your mistake the government to prevent the body to come back here and we will talk about what I'm in this week but it does not see what I'm in the whole week but if you know how you can come to the whole week when you know that the government of politics let me show fear using word.
The thing of Atleti a child which took it together but it involves violence on one side, but without another side, the event making it won and asked for instance the father's mother.
I was there.
