Prime Minister Mukoba, the director bought a luxurious vehicle.
Mlabu all, 2014.

The controversy has emerged about the decision by 4 councils of Korogwe town to buy a luxurious car for 1474 shillings, because of its director and considering the directive by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda to ban the purchase of luxurious vehicles (UDART).
Pinda gave that order for the first time in the year 2010, by giving instructions to the main government and its institutions together with the local government, not to ask for luxurious vehicles without getting a special permit from his office.
The Prime Minister returned again to emphasized the process of the government to buy luxurious vehicles in 2012, while presenting to parliament the estimates of revenue and expenditure in the office of the prime minister and office of the parliament for the financial year 2012 / 2013.
According to Pinda, the aim of that decision by the government to ban new cars in the government is to reduce expenditure that have no benefit.
Those vehicles in the council of Korogwe is Ban Ki-Marc Kabudi, 82,010,00 Tanzanian shillings that was caused by 14390,67,888 trillion shillings, those vehicles were bought at the beginning of this year from Toyota in Tanzania.
Previously, in his letter to the council of councilors of Korogwe town, the director of the City Council Lewis Hamilton have a surprise, November 22, 2013 presented a request to buy a vehicle for the department of urban planning.
However, in those request to the council, that director had not noted the request of buying a car for the director in the news headline but he gets of-cost in details of the letter, through the back "the vehicle for the departments of the city.
That letter with the news reporter, "request the request to continue with the process of buying an accident at the Department of City Planning" that can be easily read from the previous sessions, they presented the request for the purchase of the office for urban planning and instead of starting the construction of the office of the department.
According to that letter, the budget set aside for the purchase of those vehicles was 390,6,000,000 shillings for the director given a total of 186,000,000 shillings from the department of urban planning is 119,6,000,000 shillings.
Those vehicles were arriving at the beginning of this year, after the City Council completed the process of paying Toyota in Tanzania, an amount of the money they had agreed.
However, after the purchase has risen up complaints from various stakeholders in that council, while Director Kalyalya together with the Chairperson of the council's chairperson, Youngsevier Msuya, accused of purchasing and considering the instructions of the Prime Minister.
Our information service provider from the council has emphasized that in that decision, the chairman of the council and his director did not consider the letter of the prime minister and other things, the government departments want a special permit when they need to buy luxurious vehicles.
In his document, Pinda also pointed out that it is banned for government departments as well as the local government to buy luxurious vehicles which are using great costs in the renovations of time to time and to serve them.
More information from 4 pm, shows that the director using what is mentioned to be "weaknesses," chairman of the National Electoral Commission, advised the purchase of vehicles instead of construction of the department of urban planning as it was accepted earlier.
It is said that the funds used in the purchase are sales of 1,500 plots where a total of 33 billion shillings were expected to be played in 2013.
Moreover, the purchase was done without asking for a permit from the office of the prime minister as a document of Pinda has ordered and also involved other authorities like the office of the administrative secretary of Tanga Province (RAS).
Another mistake of the purchase is together with violating the law of procurement, it means that during the purchase of 30 million shillings, it is a must for a period of 30 days to be used, so as to give a chance to meet the other companies.
"For example, if the buyer has given a special vehicle of a special vehicle from one company as it happened in this scandal, then he was supposed to present his request at the internal meetings so as to be able to submit it," explained our news reporter.
In his letter of requests of buying those vehicles, Director Kalege has no explanation that what caused him to buy vehicles from Toyota in Tanzania.
More information are required to be the director and its chairman of the council not to follow the procedures of purchasing the steps to bring about many questions, as well as the possibility of the presence of corruption in the purchase.
