Different from Lowassa against others are money.
Jide 08, 2015.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) is in Uganda, an indication that, Edward Lowassa is the candidate with many followers and maybe he can download it easily by Wole Soyinka.
Otherwise, the CCM can look for another clean candidate but that it can cost them and it is the first time for selling another candidate who doesn't expect it, it will be very difficult for those who missed the party members and the lovers of CCM when Lowassa can even identify the party.
Lowassa can be a easy way for CCM to win this year's election which is taking place in a period that citizens have been given up and the performance that has failed to reach the expectations that was built in the year 2005 when the citizens seen the government of President Jakaya Kikwete for the first time.
If you look at the history of Lowassa, if you enjoy the state of politics in the past ten years of President Kikwete, it is easy to understand that it's now because his popularity has been built through a system of complaints by President Kikwete of these two people, are very different people.
Kikwete, as I met there previously wrote a lot of hope since we're getting into power, we were told to the slogan, "a good life for every Tanzanian is possible, then we talked to again" a new constitution, new speed. "
Most of your opinion about what is the meaning of success, you can decide whether the best life for every Tanzanian is possible and if the speed of Kikwete's performance and his team's performance was new.
It is true that Kikwete has thrown out the infrastructure especially road, to implement some of the promises to remove some of the citizens, but the ones who failed to fight against corruption and bad drugs, but the ones who are accusing to be a teaser!
It is in this context of the state of countries that we consider we are heading to the general elections of the year 2015, and it is no wonder, and it goes on that logic, to see if we expect the president with the qualifications to work different and that are against the ones of Kikwete.
In the opinion of many, it is believed that the president is, Edward Lowassa, a politician who is in the scandal of Richmond Development, in a great way, and I remember time when he was the Prime Minister, Lowassa was commended for quick decisions, "I remember when he was the whites.
Many have been written about Lowassa and its performance is great.
Also, Lowassa was highly commended that he was very happy and removed the country from City Water Front which was unable to fulfill the procedures that they did in the contract, he advised executives and serve some of them for the interests of the citizens, when he went up with hunger in the year 2006 / 07 and ensuring that there is no citizen of hunger.
Pictures of the competence of Lowassa are many in the newspapers, publications, networks, website, television, radio and even through radio stations in the streets and this is going on to the second reason for Lowassa's success.
There are some executives who made great efforts in the list of those who came out the forms to vie for the presidential position through CCM, for example John Pombe Magufuli in the construction of the road, Professor Sospeter Muhongo in the Ministry of Finance, again some of them have done great success in a short period of performance in the government.
But there are others.
