
Musician officer Sele Wilfredy has claimed that when he gets in parliament he will be different from the time when he will do in state in order to protect yourself and others.

Officer Sele has said that when he gets to the parliament he cannot inform his fellow artists as he said that they have been selected by the members of parliament who failed to get married.

The rapper will vie for the parliamentary seat aspirant in Morogoro town region on the ticket of ACT Patriots Party, he has said that he will not get in parliament and should expect a big things from him.

"My main objective for artists is to fight for the rights of artists," said officer Sele.

"I have noticed that we have heard about the rights of artists in music by singing just, no one will take place and there are no pressure to implement, they are talking about little and then leave it.
"But I have seen you in parliament, the artists will participate directly in the laws of the country.
"The issue of artists' rights I will be very close to me and I will fight for any way because I am in the decision of the decision and I have a mobile phone," added that artist.

"But today I am not with any weapon, but if we get in parliament we can speak out and be heard because we are in the law of law and ability.

"You know everything that comes in the parliament, you find later he was doing, I have a big difference with the members of parliament who complete their time, it shows them to see the laws of the local rights, therefore, artists should expect to see the laws of the local rights while there are those who are destroyed," he insisted.

"For now, at the parliament there is no one who had a problem with the art, artists, who if he is luckily elected as members of parliament have gone to parliament and they have changed the corrupt people.

"We have been investors of business, they have helped with problems of artists and therefore I think in parliament there was no artists who make sure, artists we want to get in parliament for now, we request therefore people should expect to see great changes in art."

In another step, Officer has said that for now he will not be able to give any song until the elections will expire.

"I would like to thank the fans of my music to wait for elections, it should do a new job because my mind and ideas and my goals are in elections, I have seen not to be taxed.

"Because this is a very important thing that is coming from the nation and it's their lives and therefore people should come out to register themselves as well as voting for the leaders they want."
