

Joseph Chibehe.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has given reports about the future of the world economy, following the previous plans that happened in January this year about the direction of its growth.
Previously, earlier this year, IMF said the world's economy will be by 345 percent this year and 36 percent next year.
According to the formation of its new economy, that economy will be by 32-2 this year and 35 percent of the year 2017 increased that it is faced with danger of not increasing.
Despite that, IMF have increased the estimates of the economic growth of China this year and in the year up to 65 percent and 62 percent.
After the famous organizations of America to evaluate the ability of the country to withstand the debts of Mogogoro region and Standard & B or is to reduce the status of China in their assessment, the new report is expecting to increase the faith of people and the future of the economic growth of China.
The economist of IMF, Mauritania, has said the world's economy is going on to stop, but its speed is for a lot of procedures and it is unacceptable, and that it will cause its growth facing a lot of danger.
The growth of the world economy that had lasted for a long time now.
According to the new laws concerning the future of the world economy, compared to the year 2015, the increase in the economy this year will be 32, only 2 percent and in the year it will reach 35 percent.
Rufaro Chatoro has said that in a meeting with journalists that took place on Tuesday two weeks ago in Washington, America, where reports about the future of the world economy was given publicly.
In his speech, Oberlin Kisanga gave a caution about the importance of procedures and weaknesses of the world economy and said the reduction in the increase in economy can reduce the value of local currency.
That report is part of the ordinary citizens who attended the meeting with journalists immediately in the first half and the second one of the year.
That is apart from the meeting at night of taking up with the same time in line to announce report about the future of the world economy and also improving the report in the middle of the year and at the beginning of the last year.
That report called "according to a long time," it has shown openly that the world's economy has increased procedures for a long time.
The growth of that kind has a bad effects, to reduce the ability of production, thus, affecting the use and investment.
As a result of that, IMF has made a call to different nations to take action against the economy as to urge the digital change, to provide financial policies of financial and increase the provision of its currency.
Regarding the increase in China's economy up to 65 percent of this year, 648 percent of this year is contrary to if it could be identified as Toyama el says.
So as to increase the estimates on the growth of the economy of China, there is an faith in the steps and economic policies which was announced by the China government that aim to improve its economy and it is believed that China's economy this year can increase by 65 percent. "
That report see that China is witnessing the process of constitutional changes but those with controversy, and it is expecting to look for sustainable development of the economy that are found through the use of service.
He says at the end, that process will benefit China together with the whole world.
IMF are also said that the economy of the African countries in the south of the Sahara Desert are estimated to be paid by 345 percent in this year, an amount that has reduced from 34 to 4 percent of the year the day before yesterday.
