
Whoever is being unable to investigate and the executive director of the village.

It has been written by Pickup,.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

The police in Rukwa province is thanking a resident of Nonga village, Lake Region, Sumbawanga Region, Rukwa Province, Yachuma (20) on the accusations of the attack against the executive officer of that village, Rene Descartes.

It is alleged that the suspect attacked the attack by the chief executive officer of the village, after he questioned him because he was walking, something night when the leadership of that village has banned people to walk with any type of weapons in that village.
Speaking to this newspaper through phone, the Chairperson of the Local Government of Noma in Moshi, said the event happened on Saturday at 2 o'clock at night, outside the alcohol club in that village.
"Our village is banned for a youth to walk with any kind of weapons at night, on the night of the suspect made by leaders of the village after seeing him walking, he has changed her and later he has changed her and later he has changed her and later he has changed her and later he has changed her and later he has changed her and later he has changed her and he went back again at the scene of an incident that is close to the club."
When he arrived at the same time I was coming up by the executive officer of Kayui village, where one person has talked to and told him that he is in that area, then the executive asked him and started seeing him that when he was married, he said.
He claimed that the Executive Director was rushed to be given first service at Kinambeu Secondary School, and then was transported for more than four hours to the provincial Referral Hospital in Sumbawanga Region for treatment.
Speaking to this newspaper through mobile phone, the councilor of Nonga ward, Amaso, confessed the occurrence of the incident and explained that the defense and security committee of that village led the farmers to play in a famous game as a person known as a girl.
The Rukwa Regional Police Commander, George Kyando, has admitted the occurrence of that incident and said that they were waiting for the suspect.
