
Being accused of being accused of the constitution.
Mose 21, 2014.

The former Prime Minister and the first Vice President who is currently the chairperson of the commission on constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba, has said that the result of the union has caused the president of the United Republic on a tour of inspecting development projects and to give the promise to the side of Zanzibar.
Presenting the new constitution draft of the constitutional parliament, Judge Warioba said the chapter of the government of the union shows itself more on the side of Tanzania mainland.
"Among the 24 ministries are only two ministries only are the ones who are dealing with coalition issues only.
In the administration, many senior leaders of the ministry from Tanzania Mainland, right now is the one general secretary who is saying that this situation is due to the fact that the government of the union is dealing with some of the coalition and that is that he has made Tanganyika as a result of a union.
The "commission of constitutional changes has said there is no way to change this situation because the government of the United Republic does not have enough authority on the development of Zanzibar, ministers and the government in general, they are forced to plan development and look for resources for the purpose of Tanzania mainland more than Zanzibar.
"Zanzibar does his development plans but in order to get resources like loans and donations, it must be the government of Zanzibar to change the government of the union, something that its implementation has caused many problems," he said.
He revealed that the only way that the development of Zanzibar continues to be similar to the issues of Zanzibar mainland is to make all the issues of Zanzibar under the government of the union, that is having a big government.
", but as I said, during handing over the draft of our presidents, the government structure of one government has a lot of challenges they saw the results of the structure, especially in Zanzibar and the commission was collecting opinions from many citizens, especially in Zanzibar and the commission made a lot of fear currently more than that of the commission is that the structure of one government does not have the reality," he said.
The conflict of constitution.
In addition, he said another area that is conflict between the constitution of the United Republic and the Constitution of Zanzibar that article 50 of the Zanzibar Constitution of the year 1984 has put conditions that the laws that are supported by the Parliament of the United Republic will be used in Zanzibar to the end of the week in the council of representatives.
"This issue has caused the conflict of constitution and the efforts were done by all the two sides, it did not succeed to remove the conflict, at the appropriate time of the year 1994 and they agreed that Zanzibar can make changes in his constitution so that the conflict can be given.
"But up to now the right time has not been implemented more than that, the changes of the Zanzibar constitution in article first that was done in the year 2010, has openly stated that Zanzibar is a country among the two countries that form the union while the constitution is making sure that Tanzania is one country."
"Changes in the constitution of Zanzibar have also stopped some of the power of the United Republic to Zanzibar for example, the constitution of the Republic gives the president of the United Republic of Tanzania to stop the country to the president of Zanzibar."
"The time of collecting the views of the citizens, the commission revealed that it will not be easy to change the constitution of Zanzibar to make Zanzibar be seen as part of the United Republic instead of having a chapter of the country and the changes of the country will need opinion polls like the constitution of Zanzibar.
"On an evaluation of the commission, after listening to the citizens of Zanzibar, it is clear that the possibility of making changes in the Zanzibar constitution to be part of the country instead of being the country, it is very little," he said.
