That district commissioner has talked to residents who are small agents who have been involved in fraud while distribution of subsidies and urged citizens to fully support the government by exposing thieves so that action can be taken against them so that action can be taken against them so that action can be taken against them so that action can be taken against them.
The head of the district said that while in the village of death that was coming from Mozambique, he was to encourage citizens to prepare themselves at a dangerous day and six this month, our writer, Catherine Nyoni, and more information.
In an effort to deal with the agents who do not be faithful from the district of Igunga District, Mister Joseph Masikitiko he says that starting next season of agriculture, all agents will be forced to ask for agents through big mineral companies so as to make sure that every agent has caused the farmers instead of buying iron sheets.
Because I know you should know the agents of these studios, we have faith?
Others do not lie?
Now, it is not a solution to you as an agent who had conned pregnant women who will be seen and he has a chance.
Because the accusations of women know you are farmers.
Now we have said that this journey, all agents will make the agents from companies that you have.
In addition to promised to cooperate with exposing the agents who are not faithful in the exercise of distribution of alternative energy, the residents of Swaya town, showing the judgment among them, they have started to urge the government to help the citizens living in the outskirts of the country.
Where he is faced with a huge shortage of social services, we have written our great cry for drinking the district where we live.
I do not want someone to help our reporter to the clinic who follow my stories as we are struggling so much by the children get married, our big problem has been water.
But the big problem is.
It was claimed that the citizens have a must for drinking water of that river.
Others have a great shape that has been organized by the only goal that he gets in food.
That we do not mean that is called the internet because?
Currently the district has talked to who was completing the exercise of educating people to come out in the money and the housing will take how many times and six this year he gave them that video.
By knowing that the government is a parent and it will not work.
Effects "Nyoni.
