It endangers another servants of the public.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The solution to the presence of ghost workers in the public sector has been found where starting on October 3, this year, to diagnose all public servants by using one system of collecting and raising information, will start while all public servants have been taking important documents within two weeks.

To diagnose that will be conducted by the government by involving the National Identification Authority (NIDA) and the National Electoral Commission (NEC) with the verification of all the civil servants who are in the ministry, government departments, Independent Departments, party departments.
Others are the government authorities of the local governments, government institutions, institutions and public organizations, where all public servants have been urged to take all the important information that will support the authorities mentioned.
That was said yesterday in Dar es Salaam by the Minister of State, Office of the President, Public Service Management and Good Governance, Angella Kairuki while speaking to the press about the registration of national identity cards for the public servants.
While explaining the aim of implementing the bill, Kairuki said the aim is to have one system of correct reports of public servants, so as to eliminate the presence of ghost workers, that cost the government billions of money that can be used to do other development activities.
I sat with NEC and NIDA, and we have seen it to improve our system of information and we have seen it to improve the NIDA system and check the reports of our public servants, and now we have their right information to our address, "said Kairuki.
He said through that system of recognition, all the public servants that are supposed to take all important information like the certificate of tax payment, the identity cards, the identity cards, the identity cards, the identity cards, the identity cards, the identity cards, the identity cards, the identity card of Zanzibar.
Following that verification, Kairuki urged all offices and government institutions that they need to communicate with NIDA so as to plan the work plan of doing that activity and to prepare a plan that will enable public servants to work without considering the implementation of their responsibilities.
Furthermore, the office and the institutions have been urged to prepare a conducive environment for making that job by preparing a special office that will be used to run that job and to select the senior officer that will partner with the NIDA officers in implementing those efforts.
Also, institutions and offices have been asked to identify vehicles and drivers for the purpose of doing that job to the local government authorities and that to the offices which are at your headquarters in Dar es Salaam, its workers will be signed in those offices.
Minister Kairuki said that the servants who are in the regional offices will do registration at the registration centers in the councils that are in the concerned offices.
Speaking about the steps that will be taken to servants who will benefit the directive within the planned time, the Secretary General of Public Service Management, Doctor Damas Ndumbaro said that the offense and its punishment is reported to the regulations of public service.
"For those who will be able to implement that order within the allocated time, they know that it is a legal action and they can't clear the establishment of the work itself," said Doctor Damas Ndumbaro.
However, he said before those steps he is being taken to the defense, it will be taken to the servants who failed in implementing the allocated time, to ensure that the primary reasons for those who do not have primary reasons, the law will take its course.
On his part, the acting director of payment of ICT (NIDA) Jaffer Hamis, said after the registration done by public servants who will be given identity cards, different from the previous ones that were not signed.
"We have begun to register on September 14, this year for those who did not have national identity cards, but those who had been given will be given after those who did not have separated," said Hamis.
In another step, Minister Kairuki said the government will take action against ghost workers that were found to the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), who have been told by the employer to stop their work. "I've heard of the report, but we the government cannot stop, it is a must to be taken," said Minister Kairuki.
