The era of Sale Ally has a meaning that today.
October 24, 2014.

I was in Dodoma during the general meeting of CCM's executive council (NEC) that ended recently.
It is surprising that TAKUKURU and top leaders of the party were not able to see that issue and others said, "if bribery was released on night, we will ensure that corruption has reduced that the Revolutionary Party and bribery are running politics from Tanzania.
The truth is that all who live with cash, it's said that if they pass through money, the chairperson knows therefore, they know that and all citizens know that and there are still a step taken by the general elections of 2015! We are not ready to be stopped by money, instead of being removed and wisdom.
That time that was supported by Saluna Ally from Morogoro, on the first day of the opening of a seminar for leaders and executives of the CCM's Youth Union in Dodoma, the year 2004 has a great meaning to today, it is not something to assume.
But following the explanation of the elder of CCM, I met with him the day before yesterday in Dodoma town, CCM encouraged the presidents, CCM concerned with many members, CCM is leading the government to hold the fate of our nation in its hands and that is that CCM is holding the fate of our nation of Tanzania.
The important things that surrounds the era of this era are, "without following the constitution, CCM will continue to carry out the results of non-compliance of the constitution is violence, groups, and nothing and conmen.
"Kiango, is difficult, our party's party, a pain does not be able to prevent it, a pain, we will discover ourselves, we should repent and tell you.
When you take this message have all the message that you are enough to Sale Ally, to release it here.
Sale Ally, is witnessing this issue in his speech when he says, "there is a phone that they identified himself," there is a good thing, who are greedy for power, can have a lot of good person to be bad and make someone to do as a animal.
We are greedy for power which is causing the war, the blood cells of people who do not have guilty of power is very high in any community like here in Tanzania, the danger has been directed to the opposition parties, we will get married, we will go back to war and many blood will help.
When we pray to the 2015 general elections, we get different pictures who are greedy for power has failed in CCM and it is a must we think keenly when we are in the era of Sale Ally, and we will look for him as possible as possible.
"We are not bad, there are Kimbari and a fire incidence, there are rivers that doesn't recognize them, there are no wonder, they put poison or not seeing them.
"There is fraudsters who were ready to be given two shillings, they go to Tanzania as we are together with those people, the party are saying their party and others have high positions and told them.
"If I advise you to follow up violence, people with mental disorders, they shouldn't hesitate to continue with Honorable Wiliamu (Mkapa), we want them to continue with Honorable Wiliamu (Mkapa) when we saw our party, those are seeing the party to make a prayer."
Where there is a period of, the level of alcohol, groups, evidence of conmen, in the country, there is no patriotism in patriotism in the country, there is no lot of danger to affect the community. These are many in various countries that surround us.
I have been said, everyone has the freedom to give his opinion because this issue is needed for all we believe that we are lack of patriotism in the CCM party.
It is supposed to put a party and personal interests, without seeing our nation of Tanzania, all the big groups at the CCM are not patriotic and they are groups of private interests, beds, corruption, violence and finally the war.
The people of Zanzibar inside CCM are also in two groups of "youth" of CCM and "the elderly" of CCM party in a state of hypocrisy and probably not have the youth "of CCM in the islands and" the youth of CCM are in the islands of Tanzania.
