By Doctor Robert Lewandowski.
One of the foods that we have been use in large numbers especially the use of high-income and below are food of three major foods, Wanga, the Prosecution (FGM).
And at a very high level, we are using drugs in our Milk.
I would like to say that food digestion is for a whole person who does not have any disease and it's just one person who does not want to get health.
I would like to say this because we have been doing food from any way, but we have never been affected by different diseases that are affected by bad diet. Until now the diabetes disease here in the world involves more than AIDS disease, a question by asking, we have risen up so far from poverty?
Today I want me to tell you a bit about food and food types of urine, because every person that has given you the right way to reduce weight as she told Evra divisive words because your body uses three types of foods that are suffering from oil and oil.
And you are required to know that a non-communicable diseases are making electrical energy in the body, whereby in the liver, it does not make four hours and if you feel it is more than two times of energy that are caused by food digestion.
This means that when I think that we can reduce yourself and you are living with a lot of strength even if you are in food digestion.

Why should I advise the tenth commandment of health?

When you have reduced or stop completely eating foods with lot of food, example, Ugali, spirits, spirits, and make sure that the action is in line with increasing the level of oil and foods in the body, it will enable your body to start using oil like energy in the first way to make the strength.
Human organs like the body and kidney diseases are using oil to produce human energy, making energy infections which will be done, these are what are used by stem cells to make the energy in plenty.
Therefore, when the time you are blocking us using abusive food, your body will use more than five days until a week, to start using oil like the body and that action is called Keto.
I would like to say that Keto who is one of your body, is to build a habit of using oil as the source of energy in the body and that's when they will start seeing changes in your body.
You will have heard a lot of strength and it is struggling with various signs that have been stolen, it's because of the great ability of the one that is in your body against Altay FK.
All of us know that eating carbohydrates at large and food in a lot of food has increased the standard of sugar in more than a level that your body can be able to withstand.
For example the normal level of the sugar industry is needed your body, it is a level that can cost any problems, then if a human being lives due to sugar are estimated to be available in blood as an ancient attack.
The drinking of soda, can increase more than 10 percent, therefore your body is being unable to withstand the sugar that ended.
For those who like to eradicate violence, which will be discussed at hiding one of the level that can produce more than 16 percent in blood.
A question of asking yourself the body comes out of sugar, while our bodies needs a little rate like it is only one.
The body is making water from the pancreas using stem cells, this water is very fast called on the blood, the biggest work on the future, and it gives a care of a special amount in Glynwood Hospital due to a big amount in oil.
Therefore, these fuel are reserved in different places like the stomach, on the neck, the chest and the chest, the chest and the blood poured in a system of Trachile in which these are among the bad oil in the body.
Now, a person who gets a lot of food in your food is safe to get in a great extent, because we see how to eating a lot of food of food and the sugar that causes the sugar level to rise, and on the beginning to save in oil.
Every day I am saying, we should have been redeemed by the attorney general, it is good and do not accept when we get pregnant with sharp diseases, all of them are not having the monitoring of good professionalism and safe for you.
