Ras Makunja has a Swahili language in this period, we are talking about how many artists can be used to make sure that they use a Swahili language.
Ahenkora has said that even out of the boundaries, you will agree that artists are famous people who have their own way to see how you can be used to market our father and eventually, it is also a big language of Africa and it is also possible.
The world continues to speak about that it has shaken the examinations and musician.
Mrisho Mpoto.
The Swahili people are saying that this word doesn't have an issue.
His answer is not a teaser?
When you look at how it was started, let me ask you and the issues of hotel with a foolish thing, there is also a problem that has done it to me, there is also a problem because I have written the behavior because I have ever explained.
They have no time to give them very problems every person looking at each other.
Moreover, I told me they are used in promoting any language of the world.
An issue of English or MTVs and the language has not been cut off which is Copa America but what is your meaning?
Its meaning to ask you that a Swahili language is rich.
The fear of honor.
But do you do a lot of nations know, but we have written this, most of us believe that here in the school, we should say that she knows all of June seven should not believe that she is doing an example, something that is not a word.
His dream every time you play in a world that you missed the beauty for you, I don't see me, I am not happy about me, I am not happy about me, I need me to hear and on that logic, now you should talk about the position of a Swahili language.
Since the boundaries because we are not the wife of the artist, it has been able to attend in different concerts that are of the Swahili language in these countries who went to me.
Hayatou, I think this is very big and I see other nations are working with more strength more than us with our language, is something that I saw and an example of the army for example, you find the person that went into him.
That has been reported that in the year Olympic Games to win a little win of books whose two and two in different languages that do not turn up but the one going back to the few minutes will be big.
A Swahili International show which I have been on the Star TV.
The late God bless Tanzania.
How had the Swahili council have learned a Swahili from different nations in the world but he knows you?
Don't know where we reach, but they know that history of a Swahili language is ending, but there are no few people who have ever happened but there are no few people who have died but there are no few people who know but they know that the source of a Swahili language is needed.
To look for if the festival knows that there was an ancient attack from different countries there were different Tanzanians.
Most of the many Tanzanians because they asked the information that attraction is not important to Tanzanians living in England who live in English which are in England after seeing that there is a festival.
Therefore, they are there Tanzanians but I'm talking.
Am talking about people who are not people who have written the teachers of a Swahili language in different countries like France, Germany.
I don't see you even in our platform, help as to help them be.
Examples or even taking the others even other people to see many examples he wanted to say.
Ras Kiduku was happy about a new thing of our words that he doesn't know the brother open.
It is a must to travel from countries we are doing with a computer and I don't know what we get in countries we ask ourselves who traveled with that is what is happening here, we are proud of words from English.
That is a Swahili language in English and we say that we want to continue to finish the table.
In a Swahili language as we have said again for a Swahili is soon we get saying the phone as we said Paul 'Swahili is this where we want to say I don't start a meeting but it is possible for a period of time is Swahili and countries.
Why you have said that you could be taught without also people not knowing.
For computer or alternative treatments, we have also made a computer to my small brother we will look for someone we can say just how we can be at least.
Why does it get a computer.
And then it is a must that the University of Bukoba was forced not to stop countries so that I don't have a lot of Swahili.
Therefore, it is not our mind that anyone has a nuisance from countries to come up.
There is a challenge.
Since it is not every place because it is not knowing.
For us to talk to me, I would like to think this is not a Swahili thing.
How do we know the late?
What we are in peace?
There is no need.
