
The contributions for employees to be taken to the community fund.
Among the things that was launched by President John Magufuli in the commemoration of the World Workers Day, it is a problem of employers not giving donations to employees in the Social Security Funds, on the time of showing how he got money through the PSPF fund and the debt went to 710 billion shillings.
President Magufuli said he was forced to speak to the Ministry of Finance and treasury at their debt, they gave 500 billion shillings for contributions for their employees and they have reached 500 billion shillings. President Magufuli has tried to show the size of the problem of not giving donations to employees in the Social Security Fund by giving an example of the government that he is leading.
But there are organizations that involve public institutions, private companies, workers in political parties and even inside the media, where donations of workers are not satisfied by the Social Security Fund.
We thank President Magufuli to encourage employers who be able to break the law, they have not received contributions for their employees in the community service, its workers are unable to inspect them for a long time to get their rights until they have not found.
Money that are going to the community funds are in accordance with the law that the employee and the employer are contribute to several percent, and every month, it is required to bring the instructions in some of the employers not giving the contributions for workers for many years, even more than ten years or more.
Maybe every person has a responsibility to check the future life of patriotism, money that are taken to social security fund is for the purpose of helping the employee when it got to his retirement age, that now starts a new life of employment again as an elderly.
On that logic, every side has a responsibility to look at this one, an elder when he is outside the official system of employment, the body has gotten tired with the strength again of doing work and sometimes the health has not allowed completely.
Apart from the employer, the community service has a responsibility in accordance with the law to ensure that the employer is giving donations to employees, but the dates to reach up to billions of shillings if they gave an example, President Magufuli, is due to this funds not using the legal authority he was given.
We believe that if the Social Security Funds would have its obligations in accordance with the law there would be the cause of contributions for workers at the level of billions, this is to show how this bags have been the source of employees who are not registered or stop working for a long time.
But another responsibility is for his employee, it's impossible for the employer where it's possible, the responsibility of the employee wanting us to know if the contributions are needed or even mobile phones are doing work of knowing the ones that are involved in the community service.
We should be responsible for us to make sure that everyone has to give his responsibility, during your purpose, what is the toes.
