

Without doubt, difficult issues are expected to meet the government of Doctor John Pombe Magufuli about the issue of good governance and the intention of leading other countries in that way, the situation is clear in every person to see, except those who are not only affected.
Good governance started that the hard issue to the government of Magufuli when he started wanting to make the government like him (in the picture), and is also the slogan of "the government of Magufuli" and also the slogan of "Tanzania's slogan 'and it was also bad symptoms but many never saw that.
To me, it was a thing that he started building the authority of the president's authority not to be interviewed because the government and all of Tanzania "it is not a must that it is one of the government but it is not a must to think that.
As a result of that, the leadership of Magufuli explained that the concept of removing boils where there is no one who wanted that reason to move in the body is poison because we see that was faced with many issues more than answers.
But it has been that we have not interviewed each other, which have legal effects (TPL Board) and who are done there and there are many times not in the country, though all of us are citizens and this is our country and we ask for the purpose of moving forward.
For that, it has been going on with the government, it has managed to make two other things that are derived from the government, it has managed to make sure that many people who follow the process of cheering every issue of the government even if it is, but for today, Magufuli is their man.
Now according to government's strength have been transferred to the Parliament of the United Republic where right now it is meeting at a long session of discussing and passing the government's budget for the financial year 2016 / 2017, being the first budget for a period of five years of Magufuli.
It started the second session of the 11th Parliament when the government's statement was presented by Minister Nape Nnauye that the parliamentary sessions will not be aired live directly so that the citizens can be taught in parliament and caused the police to sit inside the parliament and parliamentarians to deal with them.
The members of parliament who met with a beating and others opened the charges against the parliament under the ethics committee is the opposition members of CCM did not be involved in order to support those citizens and that the decision by the government is correct.
But all of us know that there are several members of CCM in this country who are following the punishment and instructions of their party which is running the government and it is making sure he is proud of stealing the throat cancer so that the way they are forced to be heard by citizens.
The current system of giving information is very clear the freedom of collecting and spreading information and later to reach citizens according to the constitution of Tanzania, but the members of CCM who more than enough education have agreed to support this and instead continue to move against them.
Currently, the situation has been bad in parliament because any camera of taking the film in parliament and instead of the journalists being taken by parliament's workers and therefore there is no reason for getting the fire.
