
'61 percent of land conflicts involves a car.

It has been written by Frank Leonard.

It has been published today, 26th October, 2016.

The government of non-governmental organizations that work with farmers, together with small farmers in the country (PEN Tanzania), has said 61 percent of land conflicts arising from the conflict of borders in the villages.

While presenting a topic in the debate in the country, which aimed at looking for issues to do so as to reduce complaints about land conflicts, the PEN Tanzania Communications Manager, Clint Williamson said the organization has given education that will enable citizens to solve the challenges.
He said that education has also aims to strengthen the land committee of the villages and land councils of the villages in order to solve the conflicts that came up in their areas.
Rayson said that the training on land rights and administration will target to increase the citizens of that district understanding about land laws, land rights and special groups, together with huge conflict of land conflicts.
He said through the sponsorship of the United Nations Development Program (USAID), the network has been raising those training in Ihanga village, Mbizo said, Maika and Masinga, through its project of Cerveny, that involved the rural communities to accountability in land issues of the village.
While contributing to a topic, the residents of that district said at different times that land conflicts in their areas will be discussed if the government will supervise the implementation of land laws, he said that action will improve peace and tranquility and making the sector to have productivity to the community.
Among those residents, Charles Mkomagu led the government of the villages saying that it is a source of conflicts because they have some leaders who fail to supervise those laws after the decision done.
"Other times the government have been giving decisions on land use without considering the law and that are not involved in the citizens," he said.
Unfortunately, you want the government to use those laws to separate yourself in areas for farmers and pastoralists so as to avoid conflicts because those two groups are depending on each other.
The ICT project manager of Tanzania that organized that debate, Rehema Madusa said that the organization has decided to do that job with an aim of helping to improve the understanding of citizens on their rights on issues that involve land.
He said that for now the project is being implemented in 30 villages that are in six districts in the three provinces of Tanzania Mainland and that since the implementation started in 2013, many people have risen up and started to identify their land rights.
