
Ummy did not want jokes in eternal peace.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been released on 09 / 2016.

Minister for Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu has ordered the Council of Famist in the country to start working of reviewing certificates of criminal certificates so as to control and they do not have the reputation of doing that job at the drugs shops.

He has also ordered the council, to take stern legal action against them, including informing the registration of drugs that involve the regulations and procedures of the council, who have been involved in acts of loss of drugs and selling of medicine and medical equipment for the government.
Ummy said this yesterday in Dodoma town, in a session with the Board of Women's Board in the country, where he rebuked the procedures that have emerged recently of wanting to make the medicine business as well as other normal business in the clothes shops, an issue that is unacceptable.
He has ordered the council to conduct an operation in the whole country to inspect all drugs shops so as to identify the shortage that they had been discovered to do that business without following procedures and requested the council to continue to deal with legal service providers who do not have fake certificates.
Ummy has stated that the council is ready to look at a conflict between Rozay, especially when an expert in the district is accused of owning two hundred and three drugs within the council which they are working and he wanted to educate themselves in improving education and education so as to get professionals and executives who have the ability.
While giving the executive report of the registrar of Funding Board, Elizabeth Shekau explained that there are many challenges that we met with in implementing their responsibilities, including many shops that sell drugs, to run the business, without having business permits while having the qualifications to make that activity.
The chairman of the Board of Funding Board, Legu Mhangwa, said that the council has been working on considering the law so as to achieve the goals they were given by the minister.
