
Yanga, do not win TP Mazembe.
TP Mazembe of now has lost its cost, they don't have a high level in the past years, can I say TP have lost completely, first the owner Moivo has been jailed for three years, Yanga must leave. "
Those are some of the statements by Yanga fans who believe TP Mazembe has lost its cost and therefore their team will have an easy job in the game tomorrow at the National Stadium at 4 o'clock in the evening.
Many fans who do not follow the African soccer clubs who like to look for news headlines in the country, they believe that Yanga is now used to win the African Cup championship without problems due to the teams that were in group A that are MO Bejaia, TP Mazembe.
If you look at a high level, you can say that the quarter finals of the semi-finals, there are no longer team because TP Mazembe ended and all of them have been sponsored by the champions league at the semi-finals of the Confederation Cup.
Ghana, which seems to be accountable in that group reached the step after winning 2-0 at home against Al Italii and later El Nino in Sudan without losing any goal away.
Ugunga has no one with the problems of money they have lost their first game of that group against TP Mazembe away, but they got a goal in that beating of 3-1 goals.
Here, when I think that together with TP Mazembe problems outside the stadium for their owner, Katanga said they will arrive at the field while they continue to play their normal soccer, therefore, Yanga are supposed to check themselves.
Players and the technical bench of Yanga entering the field because of our thoughts, they have two legs if we will happen there, everyone can leave his way.
The DR Congo Premier League continues, TP Mazembe ended with a win of 3-1 goals against Altay FK, while Yanga itself they came out for Turkey.
Therefore, if you check the fate of the match for players it is open Mazembe, it will be more than Yanga who have completed the league two days and it is clear that they have started losing the high level in games.
In the list of best soccer clubs in the world and Africa according to the internet network that was released on June 19, TP Mazembe won the third position in the world and Africa is in the third position in the world at position 324.
Yanga are supposed to enter the field when they gave their respect to TP Mazembe, but without fear as he has said every day coach Hans Pluijm, because the noise from fans should not be able to change the results of the field.
Also, Yanga players at another time they lost their keenness in the game that contributed to allow seven goals, in every nine matches of home and away matches, it has played in the African competitions this season.
One of the shortage of Yanga's defense forces is to be unable to play a huge balls that caused a lot of goals in its international matches until now I think coach should work more on this issue if they want to do well in that game and others that are involved.
The other part that Yanga are supposed to look at the third goal in that game is a mid-fielder where TP Mazembe ended a five player and called Ranaldo and Kalaba.
Any mistakes that will be done by Yanga's body as it was in the first half of the game against MO Bejaia, it will place in a difficult time.
