
Monday, August 31st, 2015.

I commanded what we are in 10 years of blogging.

For the first time I gave out the word of this year 2004 when I was a sincere reader of the "talk time" that was written by the Citizen newspaper, by following up on the address that had set aside this Thursday, I realized that I did not hesitate to wait, "said the address.

For close to the whole year I want to be a good reader of this blog, I followed up on issues concerning issues that were touched me so much, "I met with a huge challenge of us intellectually and here I'm talking about political issues such as religion or faith, the importance of the language, history and things like that.

Other blogs that had the content like this and I have followed up closely has been written by Jeff Msangi a very few months after he started a famous group of Bongo celebrity, then after looking for a period of several months since the month of August, I started blogging.

I started blogging without having a computer or the internet network, I used to take care of restaurants together with internet services in the education institutions, I went on or in the estates I was unable to write different posts and then I had not been able to write a short time on the internet and to use that article.

Likewise, I started blogging without having a special direction to produce their husbands.
I wrote the ribbon as a continuation of the what I have seen in another blog, the newspaper, will understand what I have involved in your opinion polls, therefore, I started focusing on good issues such, therefore, I started doing his position on my blog.

By the year 2008, it has already decided blogging about social issues in order to try to look for some of the questions that I did, followed, I decided to allow me to write a series of income that will go hand in line with the students claiming they are claiming the cost of time was one of the reasons.

I feared.

There are many things that I have learned through this first group and big, this blog has helped me, through freedom of this blog that I want to inform you, because of this freedom is difficult to get into other media houses that are led to act.

Also, here there have learned the importance of using the Swahili language in communicating with I start blogging, I did not see you very much, "I told me a very important thing.

Likewise, this blog have helped learn through the readers of blogging, I have seen how the opinion polls were left by the readers on how you want to see how the opinions were left by the readers on how they believe are being received by readers, listeners or viewers.

A four and important thing is the importance of knowledge and that you know a certain issue that you're being important, they should not make others right to close to others as it may even though it is true.
There are a environment that doesn't have a lot of rights like a bit tricky subject according to the view and goals of the blogger, but in general there are many knowledge in the world of blogging, it is like no one is important.

We have also made us to meet with many people from areas where in the ordinary way you have met with my close friends, I remember that I got a lot of opportunities made by people who were not in my friend of friends.

However, I know how the days is being discussed while in the speed of new technology, taking a lot of technology that will enable the ordinary people to inform them and be able to take place in very short periods and that is why these blogs have been directed.

In addition to all that, I have not seen the great importance of this blog as the platform of giving what I believe can help the community.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
