
They do not will place electricity in your health center.

It has been written by Thriller ', H.

It has been witnessed, 03 / 2016.

The panel of 10 young engineers that have no boundaries from the University of Tel Aviv in Israel, have volunteered to ban the solar energy and water services at a health center that is in Minjingu village, Babati district in Manyara province.

The donation will destroy the huge water problem with energy in that center which aims to help the pregnant women of that village which is in Mkonkole area and denied them to give birth by using the light of infection.
In addition, those engineers have volunteered to pay their cost to set aside six water sources with a capacity of 3,000 shillings to secondary schools in that ward after being requested to solve the huge problem facing that school.
While speaking about that donation, the leader of that panel, Ibanda Relini, said that they decided to give that donation after completing a difficult life in that area when they visited that school.
He said in order to achieve their intention, they met with the member of parliament of that constituency Java Island in order to see the possibility of using their profession to help in community problems.
"We are religious engineers and borders with the greatest aim is to cooperate with others, through the Faculty of engineering, we are able to implement our responsibilities for one year to help these citizens as we can't like to use our skills to others," said Atlabara.
He said that the electricity service worth 70 million shillings will be used to provide clean services to store drugs, the use of computers and others to enable citizens arriving at the health center, to get services easily.
Previously, the member of parliament and he requested the executive director of the council, Hamisi Malinza to take the necessary drugs due to the refrigerators in a short time after starting the electricity.
He complained about the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to collect taxes of solar energy equipment against the law.
"I have collaborated with TRA to pay taxes of 212,150 American dollars contrary to the law, this tax has been canceled since the year 2013, these engineers have been forced today to pay this taxes by their parents who are in Israel to bring in the electricity equipment for the purpose of helping our citizens," said Somba.
While launching the project, Malmo, said that the donation will help the community with more than 4700 residents who are supposed to get health services at the center of Nonga ward, while also the government is in the race to take a huge water project in that ward.
