
England has given a draw of 6 / - to help victims of the earthquake.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published in 29th September 2016.

President John Magufuli has received more than six billion shillings from the England prime minister, similarity between Theresa May, for the purpose of helping victims of the earthquake in Kagera province.

Speaking during the launch of two government planes, President Magufuli said that he was given those funds yesterday morning with the England ambassador to the country, Sarah Cooke.
In addition, President Magufuli said different stakeholders have given money for the purpose of helping victims of the earthquake, but the administrative secretary of the Bukoba Municipality, Steven Makonda, decided to open his account that was opened up for the purpose of collecting money for the victims of the earthquake which he had previously stolen.
According to President Magufuli, the administrative secretary together with the executive director of Bukoba Municipality was arrested yesterday and taken to court in Bukoba town.
Due to the explanations of the president, after the government took that step that gave faith to different stakeholders who are able to contribute to those affected by the earthquake, the England ambassador was young to 23 million pounds by the prime minister of that country.
President Magufuli explained that England and other stakeholders have been doing more faith that the funds they provide to the beneficiaries.
The day before yesterday, President Magufuli made the appointment of the administrative secretary of Kagera province together with the Executive Director (DED Bunda District Council after the leaders was revealed to have reduced another account that resembles the office of the prime minister of Kagera Sugar for the purpose of getting money.
Those leaders are alleged to open an account with the name "the Kagera Sugar Committee" that is like the look of an official account with an aim of getting money for their interests.
Moreover, the president has asked the executive director of the CRDB Bank, Doctor Charles Kimei in the police force to make sure that bank workers have collaborated with those servants to make a plot to start another bank accounts with the name that comes with an official account of "the disaster Committee of Kagera" with the aim of getting money. "
