Tibaijuka has talked to me for "Zitto?"
Mr 25, 2015.

The two ministers of President Jakaya Kikwete may be the delegates of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) which its report about Escrow account is that caused to cater for the level of Escrow account, he has told him.
According to parliament procedures, ministers are not supposed to be delegates of the committee but every member of parliament is supposed to be a member of one of the parliamentary committees that are in order to fulfill its responsibilities as required.
Therefore, Tibaijuka and Muhongo is not only ministers again, they are supposed to get in one of those committees as the speaker of parliament, Anne Makinda, he decided to vote.
This newspaper has been told by the parliamentary news in Dodoma last week that Professor Tibaijuka has already wrote a letter to the speaker asking for a committee and "there is a possibility that he has apologized to the PAC committee."
"I hear Tibaijuka has apologized to the PAC committee because it is not a problem because the member of parliament can ask but the last decision is the speaker who decided to be a member of parliament.
Here, where we are waiting for desire to see Makinda to choose what he has planned for what he has decided to know what he has asked, therefore, it will be difficult to know its aim especially to work with anyone, "said one of the members of parliament from Kagera Province who spoke with conditions of not being mentioned.
Speaking to this newspaper through a phone from his constituency in Northern Muleba, the day before yesterday, Tibaijuka said he is not ready to see that he was allocated with the speaker and he will work with any committee to be selected.
I am not asked to work with any committee and any one I will be used I will be just because I am a big politician and I have no enough experience in the parliamentary activities and the government. I am very happy with my citizens.
"If the speaker will see I will be able to help if I do not do so that I will have a problem if I will do I will do more like what I will do in the land committee and the environment," said Tibaijuka.
On his part, the Deputy Chairperson of PAC, Deo Filikunjombe, said they don't have any problem with Tibaijuka and that they will be ready to work with if the speaker will see his contribution is needed.
"
The PAC Committee right now is being led by the nominated member of parliament from the Civic United Front (CUF), Amina Mwesa, taking the position of Zitto Kabwe, who has prepared a membership card of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) and therefore losing his parliamentary seat for now, he is a member of the ACT party.
Under Zitto Kabwe, PAC noted the issue of Tegeta Escrow account which later planned to cause Muhongo, former attorney general (AG), Judge Frederick Werema, and Tibaijuka went to power because of different reasons.
According to the official record of parliament, Mwaruka or becomes the first chairman of that committee since the start of many parties' system, while others have ever played the position as the chairman of the Democratic Party (UDP) and the member of parliament for Bariadi West, John Cheyo and Zitto Kabwe.
Tibaijuka was surprised by the reports that he received an amount of 16 billion shillings from business person, James Bribian, who is one of the suspects who received financial and it's being sold to the Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL).
On his part, Muhongo is alleged to have made decisions that caused the government to get losses to the Escrow issue, although he left his level because he does not want to continue with conflicts concerning that issue.
Werema, a letter to resign from his position to President Kikwete explaining that his advice about the issue of Tegeta Escrow doesn't be understood, and he has brought a misunderstanding that could make us continue with him to remain in power.
Normally, it has been normal for Makinda to allocate those ministers that are going on with the ministry that they go with the ministry that they were going, for example William Ngeleja, who was removed from the minister of Ministry of Energy and Minerals, the speaker called for him to the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Minerals.
Other ministers who were taken to the ministry that they did to work is Professor Peter Msolla as the agricultural ministry who has now been taken to the Parliamentary Committee on Land, Natural Resources and Environment.
Others are Ezekiel Maige who was taken to Energy and Minerals and two-thirds have been taken to the defense and security committee coming from the minister of defense and security forces.
