Coach Pluijm has lost her.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

After Yanga was forced into a draw without scoring against Ndanda FC in the premier league match that was played at the Ntasoma Hotel in Mtwara, the head coach of that team Hans Van Pluijm has said the stadium had a reason to score against his team.

In addition, that coach said that apart from the bad field, his players missed a victory because of their opponents playing in his foreign game.
Speaking with this newspaper yesterday, Pluijm said that together with poor conditions of the stadium, the opposition to prevent them had the ability to win even with one goal if his players would send their positions they get well.
"We had been able to win that game as we would like to play in a difficult time, but it was not easy to play in a difficult time, we will be easy against our opponents who are playing in the opposition and prevent it more," he said.
Also, he said that despite playing in a speed and long distance game, but it was impossible for their opponents for many of them being leaving behind it not to allow Yanga to leave it.
Pluijm said that they have already taken place in Dar es Salaam and today they are expected to start exercise to prepare for the tomorrow's game against Majimaji FC that will be played at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.
He said they intend to respect the team of Songea but it is a must they qualify to get three points in the home ground because two other matches will be on away, Yanga has never played at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in all times they had met with that team.
And in general in five matches that they met, Yanga won only once.
In the 2014 / 2015 season, Yanga being the host that was forced to a draw without scoring in the National Stadium before being defeated 1-0 in the repeat match in Mtwara on the last day of closing the season.
Last season, the first round match that was played on January 17, Yanga scored Ndanda FC a 1-0 win at the National Stadium and emerged with three points during the second match that was to be played in Mtwara, but Ndanda won the match to win 2-2 on 15th May 2015.
