
Malaria to the children are still underway.
Every time when it reached on October 25th, April every year, the world commemorated the malaria day in the world.
It is difficult to leave the knowledge of this disease because it is still continuing to be a threat to children under the age of five especially in countries that are in tropical that includes Tanzania.
A big reason for children under the age of five are in danger of getting malaria, due to the cause of their body's immunity.
In addition to Tanzania to be able to reduce the deaths of children under five years, this disease is still ongoing as a number one by causing deaths and bites of children under the age of five, this disease is treated and brought to a spread if the advice from specialists will be considered as required by community members.
The delay of getting treatment especially malaria that is caused by malaria infections of Plasmodium falciparum is one of the reasons that contributes to children getting married that is accompanied with the effects that can cause death.
The effects that can come out is together with a huge shortage of blood, kidney failing to work and lost consciousness.
For malaria drugs, a child can show lack of joy, lack of calmness, lost the desire of eating and vomiting and a mosquito usually is fever.
Some of the children can also show signs of changing behavior including lack of enthusiasm and his environment, coughing and diarrhea.
On the malaria side it can be associated with signs and symptoms of danger including getting married, yellow fever (39), to get punctures in the whole body, so they can't understand the amount of failing to stand up because of the shortage of blood.
At the same, vomiting in everything he is eating, shows a situation to take them as lack of calmness, getting rid of color, color, dice, and the condition comes from the blood.
The modern amount of fast and a short time known as the mRDT measures are used to test for so that this disease is done from the health level to continue.
The drugs that are used to treat malaria drugs is the ones that were involved with the tablets or injections that is the first one when using a sharp teeth.
A parent or guardian when you saw a child has fever or other signs that I mentioned is good to arrive in health services earlier on the purpose of tests and investigation.
It is important for the community to build a culture of using abusive language that have been set aside in the 84th minute as one way of protecting themselves from malaria disease.
