This is happening in a business person.
Autoworks and 11, 2016 by Evarist Ndikilo, the situation.

And Evarist Ndikilo, a situation that is taxed.

My long-term dream is to be independent, one of the reasons that made it to pay a dream is not allowed to entertain at their homes in the hands of doctors and nurses from the hospital and later to be a doctor's studies so as to be a doctor.

With the good luck you have succeeded in class seven and to be elected to join secondary schools in Kilombero District, in Ifakara town, I have my fellow students who we succeeded in that year, we were students who start living in that school popular by the Kilombero District.

To join that school to implement my medical dream, it's not only because I got an opportunity to read the studies which would have helped to study in education but also that school was only neighboring the St Francis Institute.

However, I met all the first restrictions, that new school had a huge shortage of different professional resources, books, books and laboratories.

Following the story, when I visited grade four when I got grade four, I was with A A, C and Baamar and the physics lecturer and physics worth of PB Primary School.

When I was chosen to form five, I would like to evade the physics located in chemistry, Bambucha (CBB) which would have gotten her in my opportunity to go back in mathematics (IIED), and I decided to fulfill my dream of going back in Mathematics and English (HGL) and the extra subject of politics.

The aim of that story is not to explain my professional journey or my own dream of death, but as an appropriate reason for the government to make science subjects for form one to four students.

I don't want jokes about my education level, but the truth is that despite succeeding to be three-term students, I will meet a total of form six every time I met and even a large number of grade six, there will involve the physics and mathematics (for example PCB), I give all his honor.

And up to this time, I thank all students of a first degree in science subjects such as engineering, I urge them to work hard for a short time, science subjects are very big, "the truth is that at least our courses have a solution.

Now, the government depends on a decision to destroy the science studies for all students, contrary to the current procedure where students of secondary schools have been given freedom to choose the course who want (especially by considering their professional dreams and their ability to give birth.

This is a professional ability, to allow a student to read something when he wants.

The reason that was given by the government through the minister of education, technology, science and vocational training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako, said that currently Tanzania has intended to get into the central economy which are industries, and therefore the issue of science should be avoided (because it is now of having many science experts who will be able to meet the needs of the industries sector in the country.

I conclude this article by telling the minister a scholar to come back to a topic like "Kibondemaji," and "Landscrona" and "Landscrona" and he landed in the EFM program and brought together the decision by the government and its effects.

The letter of email: Annamatinde @ mkito.
