Religion shouldn't be the source of our differences.
Mage of 18, 2015.

One thing that depends on now is that, procedures, foundations of our nation has begun to assure you from different reasons including tribalism, region and bad religion.
This is things that our nation was able to perform well in the whole world that it has completed 30 years ago at that time, it did not enter into the area that we can start before the religious reasons.
When a person known as the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, I don't know how she went up and told that these days of these days are asked because of the issue of who is wrong for meat.
These differences were found here and there are now that we are headed to you further, if there is something that has started to open these things, then this process of the constitution has reached a lot.
The religious leaders have been on the front line in educating the public about what they are required to do so that we can get the premier league here in the country, Christians and Muslims, every one makes its private requirements.
There are Christians who oppose the whole process, there are Muslims who want the issue of the court of this constitution that can be able to vote yes or no because of religious reasons, something that some of us do not support him.
Our interests as a nation does not be based on our religious religion when they get drugs at the hospital, desks and youths when you get employment, there is no religion who doesn't have employment, there is no religion who can benefit or get all.
We should not understand us that these religious leaders can be dealt with because we are the religion or our grandfather's religion, these are foreign religion that are not supposed to be used that you disobedience.
We want to look for good constitution, we should not understand by following our religious faith, we should understand by considering the interests of our nation by checking the rights of our nation and put behind our interests like the nation, a good constitution will not be found.
We will also look for religious constitution as we will also look for the constitutional constitution because our nation will be in doubt and this is a step that we do not want to see me there.
