
It's not opposition is not government, all of them have not seen.
By Mohammed Dewji.
It's not his heart and my heart today is pregnant and the thoughts have already moved closer to the future of our country.
When I give me the eyes on your eyes and I see I get married and I hear you read the big percentage of abort.
On another saying, first evidence shows that this country has lost its vision and now he was heading to me.
What happens a lot even more is to see the leaders that seem to be legal to lead the country as they find him in relation to this situation.
The senior leaders of the government and the Union of Jubilee have courage to claim that the situation is not a situation again because lack of security for example has reached an amount of violating the government that is located in power instead of continuing to rule.
There is the presence of our army in Somalia also to sign a big debate.
If we follow up on the issue of security, the country is torched and the issue of corruption and the old brothers of corruption, what does tribalism.
Since this government being given them to power it has been charged and shivered out of corruption.
Starting from Mount Meru Hotel today, the scandal involving the railway project from the port of civil servants who live in a class one to those who do not care in Kenya, class one to those who stop corruption have no climate change.
Uku from the left are facing a mother problem of unemployment especially among the youths, this problem will go hand in hand and continues to rise in the cost of life and the ones that are not supposed to be the gap between the poor and the rich and the ones who continue to expand.
The economy of the nation is not allowed to be shaken by lack of security, corruption and embezzlement, a conducive environment for investing, the cost of energy, a huge amount of salaries and foreign debts.
As a situation even so, the opposition has failed to show that you can be alternative for the current government and instead of looking for a way to save the nation, they have been abducted by getting an eye on how to get into power.
Instead of the opposition to select the strategies of giving them employment, better water services, electricity, health, infrastructure, housing and education and the opponents get the government with an aim of stopping.
Under this situation, the main backbone of this article today is calling the open debate of the nation, as a nation we need to come together and ask ourselves what happens and without stopping.
