Magufuli is the strength of soda or a gas of gas?
Brightiles 11, 2015.

Last week it has already done a lot of things and I don't know until today all other things have happened since the swearing in of the fifth President of our United Republic, Doctor John Magufuli said there are only normal things that we saw every after five years and new others that made them get different questions like the other people who will try to identify them.
One of those questions is that resulted from the step by Magufuli to visit the Ministry of Finance (treasury) and visited "every day he did not want to see for many people, because one of the directors decided to pay for public funds since they were able to do so without being asked.
It is clear that, the end of those journey could affect some people's pain because if they expected to use the location or the end of the year now, it has gone to them and those who had the tickets have already been restored.
In addition to that Magufuli has touched on the issue of collection of taxes and this did not be reported well, because the government gets its strength in collecting revenue to ensure that the government cannot fulfill its plans especially if there is a huge shortage of revenue.
This issue of tax issues that is not reported well (and it was directed to the treasury) is that tax exemptions have been prepared for a long time except that is because of the decision to look for different issues (not in the picture), should not happen again until other decisions should be given.
All these have left questions like we are witnessing on a new day or we are witnessing the level of other politicians like we saw in the year 2005 when Kikwete did not come into power for the first time but it's just a few months later, "it would have been changed and be a continuation of the old issue of" here, "he said.
Now, if I would have been asked for advice and people who follow up on this issue and that everyone is ready to have a new direction and more better than that, I urge us to get money in the answer when my proposal will be very easy or do not lie against Magufuli.
These days one hundred thousand, I would like to say (I don't know if I don't know what I will be fast for the public servants and those who tried to serve the nation to an extent that someone even discourage them.
I believe we are witnessing the new beginning of our nation, I don't see it is for the way Magufuli will be able to go down in the next five years. But we know that its speed has reduced up for twenty years that they had reduced and until heading to the general elections, he was a good work ".
Without doubt in going to a fast speed, Magufuli can fall down (if it has risen from different decisions in the past).
