Due to the census results of the ten thousand year, the two that showed more than twenty percent of Tanzanians live in the villages.
While in that lot of poverty more than.
In the same village but it is one of the hundred thousand villages in the country where I did not want to know it is a big sign to many of the village not in the province of time, when I was started before freedom we have never happened before independence we have never happened before independence we have never done this service neighboring the Kenyans for more than ten kilometers.
That condition is not a parent of here.
The type of life is the lives of many in this village.
It depends on.
We were seen in food.
I will not just look for.
But on the other time the late God is going on with the danger of him.
Mountains will be little without caring about corruption effects in educating and like the areas that saw many people more than our life?
The problem and many people have been using the band.
Third very much pictures.
Youths have been sentenced to parliament to grant them two containers.
Winners will be doing work.
Also in the streets.
These are his residence of eight people in Malika Berak, even so, it is possible for the state of those economy to move forward and I have never been very much more than one hundred thousand shillings, I believe it's very much better than to be called a very big income even when he was called to do even one year and to get a very little money.
That is our sportspeople that do you have?
While completing his child, his wife is a patient for more than five years in a goalless draw, it is expected to reach the Almighty God, to remove the reputation of the poor vision, we are in the most cases but a family of Mister Paul Pogba.
It is a family of eight people but the problem with the problems that 'Machinga' will open the challenge.
Since it is a patient again, it is a long time a lady and also the first one is a patient.
From his village, it was saying that I am preparing to walk for four kilometers, he will meet to meet the first table which is the first can give those services now.
But in the condition of the patients that it is required to travel to a big hospital like the referral hospital of Referral Hospital to raise us to Bugando Referral Hospital to give them a kilometers without doubt, it needs enough understanding so as to make his family to give them joy.
