The Central Bank launches the management of Twiga Bancorp.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

It has been published on 29th October, 2016.

The Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) has taken the management of Twiga Bancorp, due to a huge shortage of capital contrary to the requirements of the bank laws, where the bank has run a loss of 21 billion shillings.

Due to that step, BoT has broken the board of directors and management of that bank and that within one week they will give services with the aim of planning how to run that bank.
Announcing the decision yesterday evening to the press in Dar es Salaam, the Governor of BoT Professor Beno Chelele said the reason of the decision was as a result of the bank is operated against the law that is supposed to be dealt with by all banks, there is a huge shortage of capital that is a threat to the security of the financial sector.
"We know that this bank is owned by the government by 100 percent, we were speaking with them for a period now, it is clear that this bank will not be released again, because the authority gives a governor to give this capital again, we have decided to put him under our management to try to find a solution to run that bank," said Governor Ndullu.
He said the decision by BoT has come to protect the customers of that bank who have not invest their money together with protecting the safety of another bank because it comes a situation that is like that bank, if a step will be taken can cause another bank to be taken.
Governor Ndullu said that the steps are in the top number 56 (1) (1) (2) (2) (a) of the law of banks and financial institutions of the year 2006 and that together with that bank has wealth, but it has many debts than property.
However, he said that bank has been being given capital by the government but as well as being given the capital, it is still running a loss and said if there is an investor who wants to put capital in that bank can be running.
"If there are some who want to invest a capital on this bank, they can't change the state of that bank because BoT has no running plan for a long time, this one we do is to try to get married from other investors, but if it's impossible to get a lesson to other investors, but if it's impossible to get the investor there are other ways of doing so that what is in those who are not allowed," said the governor.
However, he advised the citizens that the state of economy in the banks and banks in the country is good with the criteria of capital because the level of the business is needed is 10 percent and that the problem of Twiga Bank is for a long time and that is why they have decided to take action against them.
He said the current capital of that bank is bad, and that bank together with providing small services, but it has not added capital to run for a long time.
Previously that bank started with a capital of 75 billion shillings and that in the year 2014, the government added capital but the debts were big and others are not recognized by the bank to be bad.
Regarding the workers, Governor Ndullu said that they will continue being there because there is an officer of the bank who will deal with workers and make sure that they are not part of the management thus they will continue being there.
However, Governor Kasunga urged all those who are alleged to have that bank to make sure that they return the money given, because the law has a long time and they will be dealt with anywhere in order to pay the money that are given bonds.
