
The scandal of theft of billions of Escrow has been cut off, despite removing poison that will relocate, Tanzania.

Musoma Villages member of parliament, Nmrod Mkono (CCM), has said that despite getting poison that do not know that he will not relocate Tanzania if she does not have been advised.

Support, he has also been able to talk about the scandal of IPTL and the Escrow account to get a permit for the attorney general, Judge Frederick Werema.

He released that statement in Dar es Salaam yesterday, when he spoke to the press about an event to remove poison that were admitted to the hospital in England.

The support, he said on November 11 this year with his fellow members of the Parliamentary Committee on Constitution, law, and administration, they went to England for a work tour, where he arrived at the pitch and rushed to the hospital.

He said when he was in hospital, his fellow members led by the chairperson William Ngeleja, they met with his brothers about the incident and requested them to communicate with his doctor (him), Doctor.

Support, he said, Doctor captain who does work in MchJ, urged his colleagues to give him because he could have been poisoned.

"Truth I have been poison that doctors have already confirmed the issue and I don't know who those who had worked for now, the investigation of poison or someone who has not registered themselves," he said.

The support, he said that in Dar es Salaam city, he was used a short message of words (IDs), the audience warned the top of his journey and the effects that he got.

He said that after being used that message, he told his colleagues that they put the heart and wanted him to be the cause of crime and his clothes.

The support, he said that the message will be part of the investigation on his incident that I had explained is the one that was done by hooligans.

"I have been advised to forgive him in Tanzania because we have been able to take a bad step, but I have said I didn't jump because of a few conmen," he said.

He noted that poison because members of parliament are not a new issue here in the country, because even the Minister for Transport Doctor Harfanti from Mwakyembe, had a solution and rushed to the country for treatment.

About IPTL.

However, he was not ready to talk about the incident to be careful with the IPTL scandal that is going on in parliament, although he said that there is people that could be involved.

He said that, he started participating in the IPTL case in the year 1997, the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), and everything happened in transparency and is there on the internet.

Support, he said he cannot talk about IPTL issues without a permit for attorney general (AG), because the work he did was given by the government.

He said according to the ethics of his lawyer, it is not supposed to give a secret or something to his client without a permit from the party.

Police poured.

Yesterday, Tanzania always did the news that police had interviewed him on claims of removing poison.

This newspaper led by the Spokesperson of the Police Force, Assistant Superintendent (SSP), Advera Senso, so as to know about that interview, where he was not ready to read it and asked to be given more information and asked him to interview him.

"It is good if you feel that if the police are getting here, or not the special region, it means that those police are fulfilling their normal responsibility to the responsibilities of the work, be advised and then it gives the one who made it again," he said.

Tanzania always did not end there, it was impressed by the commander of the special unit of Dar es Salaam, Commissioner Suleiman Kova, who wanted to know the area that he was given by that poison.

"I request for him to explain the place or areas they were given poison so that I can try to follow up or he has been reported that where you have no information," he said.
