
The old farmers John Lukuwi.
The farmer entertaining his maize farm in Ngapa Ward, Arusha Province.
"The government had already lost direction, there is no one who knows tomorrow for the day before yesterday it was a scandal of people to share billions and make the deal of President John Magufuli for a period of six months since he came to power.
He says that due to the existence of a large extent of income between the poor and the rich, it has caused the public servants not to have integrity and therefore every person can use it in order to avoid poverty.
I'm saying in a short time, Magufuli has led in controlling the embezzlement and misuse of public funds due to many workers being taken against them, including being introduced in court.
The "what he did is for now is to remind the servants of the government that there are some of the civil servants that they are in order to identify their citizens and not knowing the property in non-communicable diseases," he says.
Explaining, he said President Magufuli as a leader of its kind, because he is working for all ministries, because he has had a servant in those ministries because every time she was caught and found with the truth.
He started with the loss of containers at the port and this issue that followed up a lot of challenges that caused some leaders of the port and the Revenue Authority to be stopped so as to pave way for investigation.
"The president has ordered all councils to verify workers and to eliminate ghost workers, we are not sure when he said it will reduce and know this is a problem in our councils, but this is possible that more than 10,000 workers are removed from payments," says Nemu.
He says President Magufuli is supposed to recognize that there is no one with the law and everyone is supposed to obey law without being forced and that's why he has ordered to be taken to the position of the traffic police who is alleged to be stopped by the wife of the minister.
"I have heard that President Magufuli is that she didn't know anything from what we want to protect their property, but he wants to see all living in life that are enough, do not have problems," he says.
Speaking about the government's plan to enable great farms not on paper, Nicrox, says that Tanzania was unable to sell their property to the purpose of its ability, "it is impossible for someone to look for their properties as it's impossible because someone was looking for his property to them and then he didn't jump," he says.
The chairman of the Citizens United Front (CUF) in Morogoro district, Sheila Mlenda, says that the performance of Doctor Magufuli in the whole city is encouraging, because the success has begun being seen although he is using the government's budget of last year which is expected to end at the end of next month.
He says President Magufuli has removed all the donations in education, but the small cost of operations in schools that bothers teachers and that is because of the budget that to withdraw the fees not have been planned so since the previous day.
We are expecting a budget that will help them to reduce the small problems facing the primary and secondary schools in order for the decision to provide free education to bring productivity, because there are many schools that get the problem of electricity, water and security, "said Mlapa.
He knew the use of President Magufuli's efforts to stop the use, Mlapa Ward says he continues so that many challenges facing citizens will go down because of six months, he has brought in billions of money in different areas.
"In the issue of blocking President Magufuli, he has succeeded in a short time when he refuses the freedom celebrations and money that have been used in the expansion of Ali Hassan Mwinyi at the Mwenge area," he says.
The Mlonganile has said that in the use of Parliament that were found 6 billion shillings that have been directed to the manufacturing of desks and many other funds will be used to reduce ghost workers in the government.
"This country had violence in the use of government funds, there were fake seminar, that is a servant making sure that you put in his pocket. This is issues that have been using a lot of money for the government," he says.
However, Mlangali Village says embezzlement of public funds did not depend on the servants not to be paid small salaries because they can be the ones who are paid from 10 million shillings to continue.
He is saying that there is no any worker of 300,000 shillings when they got the authority to prepare a seminar and to approve the funds of the seminar, but those who are the ability to approve the ghost seminar, fake phones and even to be given numerous allowances.
"The work he made Magufuli is big and difficult, let it be given time so that he can make sure that we get from the agricultural sector although he has not said anything about the improvement of industries in the country so as to improve the economy.
"We cannot fight with the fact that most of us depend on agriculture, but there is no steps that were taken to ensure that farming has no benefit to farmers, therefore the president has no need to direct more strength in agriculture," he says.
That chairman of CUF says that any country is proud to have industries without increasing production, the objectives of industries' ownership can be stuck because many can affect the agricultural resources so that they can be able to operate.
The Mlapa Ward says though agriculture in the country has been receiving many plans, but it has not been successful because the experts have not been cut off as required by the plans that are facing them.
He says that some of the farmers surprised at the farmers' bank to be opened in Dar es Salaam city when many farmers are in the provinces and that bank has not been able to have branches in the provinces and that bank has not been able to have branches there, an issue that he said is where the government starts.
Doctor Koheleth Winani from the growth of the economy at Mzumbe University, says that the time he arrived in power, President Magufuli is still a short time, but already he has started giving direction on the community where he wanted to arrive.
In the issue of economy, Doctor Milanzi says in the period of the leadership of President Magufuli, he has succeeded to perform a fetus, there is no inflation rate in foreign funds that are very close to the last phase.
The side of the collection of revenue, says that the major changes and collection has been increasing at a high level.
"The collection has increased to a huge amount, especially for the two main reasons.
The first, is to evade the loopholes of the evasion of taxes especially in our port, and the second is the payment of tax debts from the business people who in the end, "he says.
Doctor Milanzi says the speed of revenue collection was accompanied by the discovery of other revenue sources which will make the country to thank more income and reduce dependency because it has said the fifth term government has changed themselves as well in controlling the expenditure that have no benefit.
However, he says that he is still early to see a lot of success, because many sectors have not got great changes because they are the first things have been put up well so as to get to be successful later.
The direction of the 2015 / 2016 budget, this budget is giving the real direction of economic and social development because they are required to see the economy continues to grow more than seven percent of now.
"This budget is compatible with the concept of reducing suppression of donations outside the country for the steps taken against the use of tax collection, there are all signs that dependence on reduce," he says.
He says the agricultural and industries sector needs a great speed for the purpose of making employment and grow the income of those who are many.
