
Other uses of fake phones.
Today, it is a day that was scheduled to have all fake phones that will be banned from communication because it is your phone, you will have the ability to do more than other things like radio, camera, hatred and other things that are not a network to work.
What can't be done is that there are people they will be able to decide to buy their phones, put fire, to release their phones and many others because they will not be working again.
This is a short message for what to do about your phone and some of its equipment.
When you decided to leave your phone with an aim of selling or distributing it is good and we do something known as' Sura Sirambi ', a lot of phones like it has found your phone, but before it has not done the process, you will ask the secret number (Nyahaga).
First, it is good to understand that if your phone is fake and they have been restored because its standards are poor and they have no quality, because when you decided to give your child for example, you can get other problems in front of the journey and even if you can get to use or its equipment can get in any other problems.
If you decided to marry off the heart or in bags for the purpose of being taken to the criminal vehicles, it also does not have a good step because we have no machines to separate himself as a result of you, you can attract smoke and maintain your health and others and your environment.
I know most of the people have 'Neonatal Sepsis' in their phones that they used to save things and other things, before making your decisions to leave any phone, if those things are found abandoned by another person, therefore the things were found guilty and another person can be used to the benefit or bad pictures of people.
Also, many use their phones in phone instead of Plasmodium falciparum, now wearing your phone you can be surprised by your phone that I have remained in the old phone because of this kind of conservation.
You can check the procedure of moving communication to the phone number so that it can be able to make them in a new phone in another day.
In this, there are others who think now is during the time of leaving all the sim card, therefore, they are headed to May 30th and this new number is to get enough education about the phone lines and phone in general.
In other countries there are companies with the program of collecting electronic equipment like phone, battery, computer and others with the aim of going to separate other products.
I went on to TCRA to have the national policies of conservation of the electronic equipment, and even help to start groups or companies that can do this work in order to save the environment and our health especially during this period we are giving the fake products that are electronic, phone and others.
Remember to sell your phone to another person, when you know fake phones is a mistake, they can be unable to buy these phones at a easy price in the country and go to sell fake phones even when they go down.
