
Mwijage thank Pickup, of the products that are produced in the country.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

Tanzanians have been advised to love products produced by the industries in Tanzania, so as to help grow the business and support the government's efforts to build an industrialized country.

Minister of Industry Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage, said that during a tour at the Milulu Company Limited which is in Dar es Salaam city, at the end of the week.
"When you go to our products, we are making market so that our industries are available and to build our economy," said Mwijage.
He praised the efforts that are being done by that factory that produces milk from the name of Dar es Salaam and other milk products, together with the water of drinking water being reserved for plastic bags.
Mwijage explained that the factory is in the race to start producing cold drinks and to decide fruits for the purpose of making fruit juices. "I have been much protected by your jobs, you will do well," said Minister said.
That factory that has a length of 3,000 shillings is producing an average of 10,000 shillings per liter, every day before yesterday started milk from the farmers of Morogoro and Pwani province.
On his part, the Director of Dar for Dar es Salaam, Yusuph Said, said that the procedure has helped to build a reliable market for breeders in those regions.
He said that they are collecting 8,000 thousand shillings after one day from those farmers, in that tour, Minister Mwijage also visited the area of 240 plots that were set aside by the government in the area for Tundwi Songai - Kigamboni for the purpose of construction of industries and 100 houses for children who will be running those industries.
He said the government's work after testing those fields is to ensure that there is reliable electricity, water, roads and other infrastructure so as to attract investors from Kigamboni District Commissioner, Hashim Mgandilwa, said his district is prepared to ensure those areas are used as planned by the government.
