
Science subjects are a good step.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

It is clear that in order to achieve the dream of building the economy of industries, it is a must that the country involved have experts in various sectors of enough, especially the areas of science and technology.

The situation is as a result of the fact that the patriotic experts are the ones who will be able to build their country to work hard, to improve the economy of their country, different from outside, whose aim is for their private interests.
That saw that, recently the government has announced officially starting the guidelines which it gives from now science subjects in secondary schools, for the form one to four schools, it is a must to be read by all students.
Previously, before the announcement of that guide, the students who are studying in secondary education, were to choose to study the studies that they want to get to form three and leave other studies.
The Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako, is insisting that the government has taken that action as a result of the intention made to make sure Tanzania enter into the central economy, which is industries.
The truth is that the government's action is to be added, because the government has shown its good intention of wanting to increase the number of scientists so that the nation can continue and be able to sustain themselves as a nation of industries.
For now, Tanzania does not have enough experts from the fact that it was not behind in science and many students were using science subjects due to various challenges like the shortage of teachers, laboratory equipment and small awareness in those science subjects.
But the past government, especially the fourth phase started a special campaign to encourage students from the level of parents to the leaders, wanting students who are in school to love science subjects.
As it is not enough, the government has also handed over 100 desks to science teachers by giving them 100 percent to increase the number of teachers in those studies and thus removing the challenge of shortage of teachers in the past years.
Moreover, in those efforts to improve the science and science experts, was also started a campaign on construction of laboratories in the whole country for every district commissioner, province and executives, to make sure that school in their areas have enough laboratory.
For the 2016 / 2017 financial year, the government has noted that it is expecting to employ 32011 teachers in primary and secondary schools so as to increase productivity in the education sector in the country.
For now, the number of secondary teachers who are 88, 999, where among them, 18 teachers, 545 teachers are in science and Mathematics studies, 454, 454 and business studies.
Therefore, if the government will be supported in his step by the citizens to be on the front line, urging their children to love and focus more in science subjects, it is clear that the coming years in Tanzania will have a huge number in the area of science and technology.
The foundation stone is for the government to ensure that it gives challenges that are there in schools, including ensuring all secondary schools, they have enough teachers of science, equipment for teaching and laboratories for teaching equipment, and not only buildings.
Everyone of the issue, most of the time we are faced with various challenges, but there are faith that we expect that action is to build a very important generation for the interests of the country, and as days how it will go further in the community and its productivity will be seen.
