
Diamond has written the fifth lady to overturn a lady.

Story from Nyemo too.
Love has not yet known after getting married and they broke up with a Bongo movie actor, Wema Sepetu "Beatles," Diamond Platnumz "has decided to write a five great secret of a musician, Nasibu Abdul," Diamond Platnumz, "he has decided to write the fifth secret of the music star, Nasibu Abdul," Diamond Platnumz "he has decided to write the fifth secret of the music star, Nasibu Abdul," Diamond Platnumz "he has decided to write the fifth secret of the star in East Africa.

While speaking in a special interview at the newspaper offices, BN-Square, in Dar es Salaam city, without stopping the eyes of stealing words after being asked for him, he decided to put aside all things in public.

View.
He died, "I am a big artist and one with honor, sometimes I am supposed to have a mind to have a relationship with the people who will be for my support.
"I cannot be very close to someone who will not increase anything about what is after doing so much in Tanzania, I'm in Kenya where I was close to Mzee Avila Akwara.

"After being silent for some time, I would like you to run away with Uganda also, I think I would have written the market for being close to your beauty Rob.
"True I have succeeded and even on his show (December 18 this year) in Uganda, it was bad to believe that what has happened, the people were a scholar and the great musician, I need to market itself more."

Jokes.
The second reason he mentioned is that Zari, who is a mother of three children has sexual excitement and "the others have ever ever defeated.

"There is no one who doesn't like to stay with a girl who doesn't have sexual excitement then let me think about the baby is a pipeline, when you're close to you, you will discover that the child is very close to you, you will discover that she does not lie on it."

Business is not there.
The third reason he mentioned Diamond is that the lady is in business.
"I look for money so that my business can be able to make steps I don't have to sit close to my fellow businessman (Eve) because of consulting with their businesses.

"Him (Eve) is a veteran in business, being close to him but I believe I will learn a lot of things.
He has been clear that for me and he has given many loopholes of doing business, but do I have been close to him, instead, what would I have done?

It is a problem.
The fourth reason for having Zari, Diamond claimed that a musician is good for information.
He died, "I am a big musician, good children, they don't know that if I would have made a decision to have a good woman, words would have ever been good, Mister Trump is a woman who by looking at it, you can say that you have not ever met with a good woman like him.

Do not lie!
The last reason being baptized as Diamond is that Zari is well in the head because of us to know different from all women he did not love with them.

I have been different women who were not different but to Zari, it is a woman with wisdom and if you know very much and not the spokesperson and he likes to do actions than words.
"He knows that which one should be able to do with her mind has failed to do a lot of money if he does not like to hold a lot of money, he loves you and is a very attractive woman.

Welcome him in Washington DC, Wema and Mister.
Diamond, when he was asked about the mistakes of beauties, the stars that he did from them including the beauty Jokate Mwegelo, "Wema Sepetu and the presenter of Radio E-FM, Penzila Kaisi (right) and concluded that it is good but he didn't know her.

The introduction of Dar Live.
Apart from place them open, relatives, the relatives claimed that he will give an official launch for Tanzanians who will be tomorrow night at the Dar Live International Airport, Mbagala, in Dar es Salaam city when he was walking, Makabe, his fellow musician, Elder Yusuf and other stars at the entrance fee of 10,000 / = shillings as usual.
