These two things will say they are forced to look for answers and take action!
Jon 09 / 2014.

I don't know what I don't see the things that are not supposed to see things.
There are two things that I believe it can be able to be looked upon again and eventually bringing the answers that I would be able to say three things but you will talk about these two things but not knowing these two things in a situation to start a debate.

There is an issue of emerging afresh with the wave of criminals and also continuing to arise in many areas that are causing many people and stop hundreds of injured.

This view of the increase in the wave of robbery and use of sharp weapons and especially the bombs are required to be looked upon in correct light.
Therefore, remember when President Jakaya Kikwete entered into power, Tanzania was in a situation like this now and maybe it is very bad.

There were events of robbery in an extent that it was difficult to use a week without being heard on acts of robbery yesterday due to that situation, the government decided to take different steps to deal with those acts that until now there was a certain state of calmness and if you remove the acts of albino killings.
But in a certain way it is difficult to say that the situation is still ongoing and that now our people can leave everything anywhere in security.

It seems that the safety is currently difficult, to be done in the afternoon or night since the acts of robbery.
An increase and not only robbery yesterday night but events of robbery yesterday morning and sometimes even not far from the police stations.
Already several people in this year have been killed in these events of robbery, so I can give a few examples to early this year in Kariakoo, people who are suspected to be an amount of money that he knew that it is not the only incident from Kariakoo areas in the recent months.

It is not that Dar es Salaam only even Arusha that criminals have done their things.
But this doesn't be able to control this disease of criminals we have seen in Kimanzichana, Dar es Salaam where those robbers from police station and killing one police.

Here we must ask for the questions, it is that robbery has increased so much or in our security agencies they are vying for planning?

It is possible for the networks of robbery, it is a lot more than what we want to do what should be done quickly?

It is important to ask these questions, because we look at Kenya where there are accused of Al Shabaab that they have done the killing of Al Shabaab who had done the killing of those who are prepared to ask ourselves how we are facing them with robbery or passport for that kind?
People who still meet at gatherings of every kind without even having two times, the person decided to do so that we can deal with him or to them?
Another side, there is an issue of accidents, there are many accidents that are received in the country and in our roads it is true because of a bad road or there is more problem?

Right now all people who drive very vehicles are supposed to have a license to run?
Why our accidents are supposed to kill a lot of people, because we do not have a good service or rescue which could not help you so when the accident occurred?
It is not that many people have died as they be rushed to "hospital many times in the normal vehicles only is not special?

Think about an example in the year 2012, California county in America had approximately 16 deaths arising from road accidents. The year Tanzania had an average of 3875 deaths, though the number of people are close to Tanzania having many deaths especially given other things.
For example, although most of the accidents happened in Tanzania we are told the driver that he was going to a fast speed but the truth is that there is still a speed of vehicles in Tanzania did not understand the one of California or some of the developed countries.
For example, in a high speed it is prohibited for 112 kilometers per hour to 70 percent per hour.
It should be remembered that one-thirds of all the accidents in Tanzania are from Dar es Salaam because if we get the solution the problem of accidents in Dar es Salaam will reduce the deaths from accidents.
