
High committee has ordered to Mtwara regions to be.

It has been written by special writer, Mtwara.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

The Advisory Committee of Mtwara province has launched the Mtwara municipal council to ensure that the decision was reached in a session of that committee that took place at the end of the week.

That decision gives the regional position to present their applications in the office of the prime minister, regional administration and local governments (Tamisemi) so as to ensure the government failed.
That will enable Mtwara Province who are popular in agricultural farming and production of natural gas to get the first city since its establishment in 1971.
Discussing the letter presented by the Executive Director of the Mtwara Municipal Council, Beatrice Singano, delegates of the Advisory Committee of Mtwara Province have agreed that the council meets the criteria of being the city.
In the letter signed on October 10, this year that was directed to the chairman who is also the head of Mtwara Province, Halima Dendego requested the committee's delegates under the reputation of having the city including the existence of sustainable city.
Those signs are together with the distribution of natural gas which is currently harvested in the areas of Msangamkuu and no one that has been discovered in cumptions that has not been started.
Also there have been a natural gas factory that has been built at the Mnazi Mmoja Grounds in Mtwara district.
Other signs are the construction of the Central Bank branch together with other banks, the presence of the airport and Mtwara port which has the reputation of having a long distance.
The lady who was appointed as the director from the District Council, Masasi, mentioned other qualifications to be the presence of a special program of Mtwara town which was has been prepared to manage the city for 20 years to come.
Likewise, the Mtwara Municipal Council is the center of international activities and the center of those services in the provinces of the Southern Region and neighboring countries of Malawi, Zambia and Mozambique.
