
It is good that the government wants his performance.
Half a year has ended since the fifth term government under President John Magufuli got into power, after the general elections that took place on October 25th, last year.
Since he came to power, November 5, last year, President Magufuli has made great changes in the primary issues of operation of the government in the government of moving the discipline of public service by dealing with misuse of office, bribery and laziness.
President Magufuli who has managed to expand its followers since the time of "Here, We Only Work," he started showing his intention to deal with evil acts in government by dealing with acts of evading taxes at the port.
Also, he is controlling and sure to save a big amount of money that was being used for trips outside the country and the public servants, right now a public servant wants to go outside the State House again after explaining the benefits that the nation will work for him to go there.
He has canceled the occasion of several national celebrations starting with reducing the funds that have been built for celebrations to launch the Muhimbili National Assembly and proposed that it may be used in the community activities as building the road.
Another big issue that was done by the fifth administration of the nation, is its fight against ghost workers.
While swearing in the heads of provinces in the city of March this year, President Magufuli together with other things, he instructed for the verification of ghost workers that the government has been using billions of money without doing any job and to improve the cargo that is not required.
In order to prove that it is an issue that requires monitoring keenly, he made the appointment of the head of Shinyanga province, Anne Kilango Malecela just one month after being elected by saying that his province had not had ghost workers while it was noted that his province had not had ghost workers while it was noted that his province had not been affected.
Those are just some of the many leadership that President Magufuli has done in six months of his leadership that have caused many people to get hope that their expectations in making steps in the economic and social sectors will be sold.
But that system said, the leadership is Junction. Apart from getting congratulations, there are some things that this government has not yet to meet their expectations as one of the parliament to fail to follow the debates with their interests.
Also, there are some who have been questioning the style of removing that leaders that be known to do mistakes or he was accused of carelessness which has been given the name of "removing boils," believe that they have advised to be followed by regulations of service in order to identify the servants that are available and different mistakes in the official way.
In addition to those allegations, we believe that this government has made great work to build the discipline of public servants, when we urge them to make sure that it has done well and to make sure that it has done well and to see how they are getting solutions.
