
There is false with the data.
Sei 30, 2015.

So, let us believe research with depending on statistics that allows you to win, and in which way we will win, and because they are trusted, "this is true" a word "virgin" is true "a word" virgin "is like the eyes of the eyes that we believe in us.
Recently, two non-governmental organizations have been chosen by the name Kocha, which is in Kenya and the one of Tanzania known professionally, they said that there was no presidential candidate of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), won the presidential candidate of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), he won.
The Mloganzira institution has done its research on September, said that Magufuli won by 62 percent with Edward Lowassa, the presidential candidate of the Democratic Party (CCM) had not get 31 percent of votes.
Also Twaweza, that performed his research on August and September, it was telling us that Magufuli won by 65 percent and Lowassa was following up with 25 percent of the results of those two sides to be like that, it is not a surprising thing because, so that research intern.
Few days after the two institutions gave the results of their research, another institution, which is also a non-governmental organization called Tanzania Development Goals (MAP), have made the results of his research that he used in September 4 to September 23.
The results were different compared to the management, according to the Republican Party, Lowassa who is backed by the United Republic of Tanzania (Ukawa), who would have emerged the winner by an average of 4 percent of the Citizens Constitution (Ukawa), who would have emerged the winner by a total of 4 percent, he has said that the elections will be done in that period of research Doctor Magufuli had not get 40 percent of votes.
In the countries that are developed countries, those types of research shows that those types of research depend on the opinion polls of some people who were selected to be asked questions like, for example, who will vote or do not meet the party.
Statistics is used so much in those researchers and other times, but those types of diseases are not involved with the real results, perhaps, Kombo said.
Many times I think about the results of research like this, remember the words that he wrote a American writer in the past 196, there are a lot of three types: "Are false with the statistics."
Although it is in the country, he said that he sees those words from Benjamin Saiwa, who was the former prime minister of England (February 1874) until December 1890 by December 1890 by December 1890 by December 1890 by December 1890 by December 1890 by December 1890 by December 1890 by December 1890 by December 1890 by December 1890 by December 1868.
That is important is that those statements have been used by checking the strength of number number (data) and how statistics can be used to give strength to issues that are evident, the statistics are also used to give the truth.
For those reasons, among the other things, my advice is that we do not have a lot of research that affects the results of the general elections, we should wait until the real results will be announced where we have no great experience in how to educate these things that can cause fear in the community.
Other types of fear is the one that is aired live by politicians for the surprising fact, that a good example is a member of the campaign committee of the parents of CCM Abdallah Bulembo, who is also a member of the campaign committee of the parents of CCM Abdallah Bulembo who was quoted saying that CCM will not accept to release Ukawa in Ukawa.
The chairman of the National Electoral Commission (NEC) Judge Damian Lubuva, doesn't know that those statements are the surprising fact and that they denied the election results which they have failed including treason, those statements are believed to be cursed by all who love peace.
The leaders of CCM have been proud that the neighboring countries can learn a lot from Tanzania and how this nation was able to maintain peace and be the only country in the East African region that it will be faced with violence and that issue has a truth when he is wrong.
The surprising thing is that among those who are not proud because it's a lasting solution to Tanzania, there are women Abdallah Bulembo and Nape Noma, secretary of ideology and propagation of CCM, those who get words will be able to serve the nation in violence.
