TFF starts with the scandal of.

It has been written by.

I was heard (22 October, 2016

Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has requested Yanga soccer club and Simba to meet in order to resolve the issue of Hassan Kessy.

Previously, that player was in Simba before moving to Yanga, where people of Msimbazi claim that their counterparts did not follow the procedures during signing up, since he had a contract with them.
TFF through the law of law and some of players are about touching on that issue and now have been taken back again for Simba and Yanga as a member of honor of the African Football Federation (CAF), Said Hamad El Maamry to resolve the.
However, if those teams will be unable to reach an appropriate time about that issue, then TFF is expecting to give its decision, which will decide the player to be legal for the team, "Kessy and Yanga this season from Simba, he has caused a huge tension between those two sides and the recent step is the one that made those teams to meet in order to deal.
Simba, they wanted them to be followed by Yanga at an amount of 13 billion as part of the section of the contract with that player as possible and until now Yanga have not given those funds together with all, but TFF seems to be a lot of money and that's why his series of money has been so long.
Here the TFF is like a parent and who is supposed to give a decision to the two children who attacked them, therefore he is supposed to do justice and give your decision so that they continue to get more time.
Kessy continues to play for Yanga and the fear that maybe that issue is expected to reach a bad step if it will not be resolved quickly since the Tanzania Mainland Premier League continues to be played.
TFF should be afraid of giving the right decision because it will help to unite them in good side despite the noise that will start to oppose that decision, if they will be happy about the one side.
It is our expectations that all the concerned parties will be keen to ensure that the conflict ends in security and peace in order to provide a condition for a long time now.
That soccer federation be able to improve or solve the problems or complaints happening and not being silent and decided to be silent and decided to follow on an agreement instead of following the regulations and procedures that are still ready.
There is no need to move around, because there is required is to follow the regulations and procedures and give decisions about the issue so as to give rights and to give their decisions by considering the regulations and procedures instead of going to meet and agree.
