
Witness the case of B@-@ 7 / - has explained the receipts passed.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

It has been published in 21st September 2016.

A 19th witness in the case of verification of funds and theft of the internet network of seven billion shillings, involving 13 employees of Barclays Bank, Arusha branch, Ephus Madinda (37), has said that the evidence of the bank's documents are a result from the tourism company that got to bank for the purpose of getting tourism services inside the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCAA).

Madinda has said the court today was led to the evidence by the senior lawyer of the government, Pindani Nyalile in front of the resident magistrate of Arusha District and Arumeru District, Deusdedit Kamugisha.
He has said that Namkoveka said that the payments for the banks to the tourism companies after realizing that they walk to put and give money to the authority's accounts, the organization's accounts and the organization's book will not be heard and without getting rid of those funds they would be able to identify the theft.
Madata has said that the tourism companies were providing cooperation and were presented some of the charges of putting money to the leadership of NCAA, and they saw some investigation that when they noted that some of 750,000 dollars were not involved in the account of that organization.
He said that all that was held in collaboration with the police force in Arusha and the headquarters of Dar es Salaam and his team of investigation and all the documents to hand over the police at the office of criminal Investigation (RCO). The case is expected to continue again today and the 21 witness in that case is ending his evidence.
Those suspects in different times between the year 2011 to 2012, made the theft of that theft by giving them to various tourism companies and the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority through showing off the documents of US dollars and the system of payment.
The main bus will be the first in that case is Baller Allo (34), who was the manager of Barclays Bank, Arusha branch, Lilian Mgaya (33), a penalty that was affected by 36), Joyce Kimaro (36), Daud Kimaro (36), Daud Mosha.
Others are Doroth Company Limited (50), Evans Kasibu (40), Tucta, Agrey Moris (34), Joseph Meck Sadick (34), Amon Manyama (34), Gervas Lubuva who is not an employee of Barclays Bank, Deodatha Makani (35).
