
Mwakyembe, Edward Lowassa is Richard Miles, he decided to resign as the minister so as to evade a shame.

Member of the CCM's campaign team, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has said that the scandal of Richard Mwaikenda, has said that the scandal of Richmond Development has not been left together with CCM members because the presidential candidate through CHADEMA, Edward Lowassa has started showing a lot of people to be involved in that scandal, something that said it did not loose.

He said this when he was addressing the residents of Ubungo yesterday, a meeting that was going on in hand with seeing the parliamentary candidate of that region on the CCM ticket Doctor Didas Masaburi.

"You know that there are big challenges that God commanded the agreement of Richmond and does not recognize that's why you want the president of the country.

"In that issue there is no president or who's the chief player is Lowassa and he did therefore for the same time to get money and there is a evidence of the two legs.

"We gave two terms as first, due to the evidence that is found to participate in the second was to parliament to prove his participation if he didn't know.

"What he did is to decide to retire so as to evade a shame.

Speaking with Doctor Magufuli in his meeting to talk about the scandal of Richmond and releasing other leaders to talk about that issue, Doctor Mwakyembe said it is due to 32 members of the campaign committee to have responsibilities in various areas in the country.

"Those delegates are divided into different areas, and everyone knows the citizens in a different style, but the aim being to make sure that CCM emerges with a landslide victory and even if both delegates were followed by Doctor Magufuli we cannot speak all from time," he said.

Campaigning for Doctor Mwakyembe who is also the parliamentary candidate for Kyela region and the Minister for East African Cooperation, said that the parliamentary candidate of Ubungo region through CCM is a lot of work that are needed in the next leadership of Doctor Magufuli in bringing about development to the citizens.

In Ubungo region, it is a special region for the implementation of its first importance is the area of industries, second is the end of Dar es Salaam, but the third in Dar es Salaam city is the one of the member of parliament that is required to lead in order to make the nation to get justice, "he said.
