"Donald Trump" of Tanzania did not appointment.
Dec 16, 2015.

President John Magufuli has given his promise by choosing a small council of ministers comparing with the incident that took the fourth phase of what he revealed is that the few ministers can be able to do the same or even more than that that was done by ministers that don't have accounts.
In reducing the number of ministers Magufuli, he is increasing the legal use of public funds together with embezzlement of those funds, these ministers will be paid houses, vehicles, vehicles, salaries for drivers, they will cost security and payment of counterfeit drugs, they are paid security and they are not involved in the location.
What's surprising thing is that there are some of them who don't be dealt with and don't inform them and don't fulfill their hands up to corruption, it is why there are those who see politics that it is a field of eating and give them sweating as they get to the public funds and register it.
For that reason the politicians of that type, especially those who played 74 matches did not affect the interests of the citizens, they don't know the interests of the human rights, to reduce the law and to make sure that they have been given, he insisted to the authority.
Therefore, Magufuli announced his cabinet of ministers that do not have many ministers as the President Jakaya Kikwete takes place, in general, they arrested him and thanked them for fulfilling the promise.
However, despite his intention to reduce the cost of government's cost, it's good for example and the reputation are given the reputation inside and outside the country, there are investigators who criticized the appointment of some of his ministers.
Shortly, investigators have agreed that the release of that council is not good or it does not make sure that Magufuli had appointed some of them to pay a courtesy walk.
Therefore, we did not know if the appointment of women Doctor Khamis Kingoba (Deputy Minister of Health), January Makamba (coalition and Environment) under the vice president, and Nape Nnauye (union and Environment) is like their payments for the work they did during the presidential elections.
The work was made by Edward Lowassa, who was the former opponent of Magufuli in that election as the candidate of Ukawa, a union of four opposition parties.
Those ministers have been awarded those positions as usual for the work they made.
The appointment of Nnauye, the secretary of ideology and ideology of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), was not wisdom in a good ministry that forced him to serve all citizens without favoring any CCM unit.
It did not recognize that a big issue to a leader like him who plays for close to the general elections said that his party must be employed even if it is, "the hand goal."
Tanzania has got a bad comeback to the press and the media that are in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar for a recent example is a attacks that was done last night on December 3 at the radio station of Clouds FM that is in Migombani, Unguja.
It is alleged that about the 15 people who are proud to get into power at the in the force they were forced to break the broadcasting services and then they saw a person and they are continuing to say they don't know who don't know who don't know who do not know who do not want those attacks.
Citizens in the streets should come out, they are saying that he has said that those attacks have been made by their fellow rivals don't like the day before those criminals have been arrested.
This one that comes out when the first ministers of the cabinet of ministers of Magufuli was announced as the way Zanzibar does not be represented by ethics in the council of government of the United Republic of Tanzania, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi, (defense and security force) and Professor Makame Mbarawa (water and Irrigation).
The appointment of Mbarawa was announcing that the ministry that was given is not for a union and a half of the ministry of Mwinyi, that is the army for building the nation, does not deal with the union.
