
He allowed the president to assure you that they are criticizing without the solution.
By Bashir Yakub.
And the KAMAHURU party that President Uhuru Kenyatta has been showing that the recent days has shown that many Kenyans who have started to cause conflicts due to the silence that they did not know if they did not fear, self-reliance too.
What did not depend on citizens is that when I am not getting a statement that I have ever heard of, "the security will begin by you," this is true because those are a eyes of the government.
However, if you are brothers and to believe that he is distracting security, it is good that we inform the security involved so that action can be taken.
President explained the truth that can't win against everything without giving a solution.
When they ask you to give another right way of achieving it, that is eternal peace that is believed to have citizens who need from the leaders.
One who was chosen to claim that the government has not been unable to lead everything there is being faced by the incident because it is possible that he was not involved.
President Kenyatta to stop firm and not to be shown and the ones that have not been stopped and those of the leadership and they do not look for all their strength.
They will look for ways of blocking the administration so as to bring in peace because of personal reasons.
As you so much, the government will lead you a step because we will not accept to see the nation in a disaster of war, it should be used and appreciate the life of the plan to save the youths that they want to get into the crime.
For the government will step down, then the other will go into power and to benefit them, it is dangerous and it is aiming to benefit for those personal politicians.
What they are coming to work is to cooperate with their government, he believes that they can help other students because they are a human being, he said.
The money are already for development projects for people from all, women, youth, elderly, disabled, and so on.
You can't be used badly with the aim of benefit few people who do not care about the interests of many colleagues.
President Kenyatta we advise you to continue enjoying our truth when you know that we will lead you forever and we will urge all other Kenyans to do so for our benefit.
What you care of us will serve all of justice and we are supposed to do so until you enter from office.
If you put aside, annamatinde @ gmail.
