
Kibanda Maiti a Kenyan shot in River.
B M J has resigned as Leonard Lutegama Maboko of a Kenyan who is 21 years old, was found dead in Garagara River, South Africa.
The police officers of that province on Sunday, confirmed that the bodies that was found in the river Charles is, Dennis Njekela said that the university's student who disappeared from several weeks ago.
The student of the University of Huria Tanzania has been seen for the last time in November 28th with his colleagues in the university.
Security officers and his family started looking for you, 'd Hs for just after disappearing.
On Friday, his body was found on Friday, according to the security officers.
After confessing of going on that body, the police officers on Saturday, confirmed that the body was amniotic fluid.
Head of the University of Huria Tanzania, Mister Joseph Aurier has sent his condolences message while saying that he was involved with the death of that student.
"We have confirmed through the security officers that the bodies that is available in the river Charles was like Dennis Kadama, it is a big blow," said Mister Rished.
"I would like to thank his fellow students, the community and the police officers to volunteer in state and wealth, to look for Dennis night and this afternoon just after it was reported early November last year," he added.
Family, relatives and friends have been receiving condolences to the Kenyans who live in America following the death of their loved one, Dennis Kadama, who was mentioned by her colleagues as a student who had a vision and vision.
"Njekela said that he has a vision of in life, we are seeing her family that forced him to be patient during pregnancy," said Mister Fred Halla from Atletico Madrid.
The management of University has told the nation today that Njoku has been born in Kenya, he was born in Kenya, he was born in Kenya, by joining the University of Shangani areas where he was looking at the course of writing news.
"He was a lover with a player of world football and was expected at the end of this month, to announce information at one television station in Boston," he said that the management of the university's management.
The management of that college seen that the family's a high level will give information just after reports of their disappearance.
Mister Blue has said that the university has started providing counseling to friends and students who were involved in the purpose of looking for the body a high standard.
