Manji is given the team.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

Yanga's chairperson, Yusuf Manji is expected to be handed over that team after their game of the premier league and Simba on first October this year.

The news that was found in Dar es Salaam yesterday is saying that the players of Yanga under Geneva, Karume, by Francis Mutungi has decided to give an appeal to Manji as the team for 10 years as he requested for the emergency meeting of members of that club which took place on June 11 this year at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in Dar es Salaam.
Manji has asked to be given a club for 10 years and in that period he will be taking 75 percent of the team's income, while 25 percent remained in members where he was also in the soccer team and his club's logo, all the clubs will be under its company.
"The shivered out of three years I will make sure I get the benefits, and 25 percent of the benefits will go to the club, being a loss I will give me, and after 10 years I will start the shares," said Manji at the meeting.
Recently, the rapper told Bongo Five that they have refused to give him the team and that there is still small things that they completed.
"Basically we have already agreed to get into the team, but there are some small tribes to the" virgin "(proposed), it is a must they follow up before giving him officially," he said.
However, one of the veteran players of that club claimed that Manji will be handed the team after the game between their rivals and even so, his side we have finished, that issue is in the hands of Yanga's executive committee, they are supposed to talk about that issue. "
On the side of Yanga's secretary, Baraka Deusdetit when he was asked about the issue, he said that, the issue is of the board of directors to go back to the executive committee, I think the board of sponsors are supposed to talk about the issue, it is possible that the process has not been completed, it will be complete where it will be complete so that you will be complete.
