
Rose Mhando puts a problem in the internet.

The gospel musician from Tanzania, Rose Muhando has brought a controversy on the internet after receiving the reputation of showing the musician of Bongo Fleva artist, Rose Mhando, gave those reputation.

An artist of Bongo Fleva Rich Mavoko, accompanied by the gospel musician in Tanzania, Rose Mhando.
To witness the show he collaborated with the father and his new song 'Usiwe Bubu'.
Rose Mhando was quoted saying that the show that he wrote by father and that his new song is very happy and if he continues to give a new song for sure artists.
They are directed so much but they don't be able to take him, but he also added that Rich Mavoko is a artist who becomes a artist who will start from a lover 'Usiwe Bubu' has already started.
However, his show is so much compared to other shows of Bongo Flavor artists.
After people showed that they are not satisfied and the act that if the gospel musician decided to accept the own songs. "Father said that Rose Mhando is a musician.
However, he does not see if there is a problem if he told him, because he told him, he has praised his art and not something so that there is no problem.

"I heard a lot of gospel musician, Rose Mhando, to talk about the truth from her child, I request I ask for me that he has been highly commended.
The truth, you will inform you that all the days from a red carpet, until today I am happy to thank God and let me now, Rose is my fellow musician who did not came for why?
They are complaining of sexual songs because those who live in their own music? "Said philosopher-father.
"Let us reduce the noise, Rose Mhando has told me after seeing the song that I gave me the song that I wanted to attract the person's side and the side of the Show is also known.
It is being shown every day but God knows how I am happy until today, why Alli Kiba has told my show that I have been with anything, this has come in history of the country already in the world.
My sister, Rose Mhando and accepted the art of "added philosopher-father.

Due to this Rap music artist, Fid Q on his side emerged and said that even he is collaborating with the lady Rose Mhando, because he accepts him.
The father of his show and his songs is also a situation that made Fid Q that he started giving the guide to his fans who were seen to receive the different message of Rose Mhando.
In order to agree with the father and start thanking the judgment on different issues and follow the explanation of Fid Q to the people who have been able to find Rose Mhando on his statement.
He refused to be a father.

"I thank you to agree with the issue of the authority of the judgment, Jomo Lyimo to now get the right in the way of the love he doesn't know if the sister will not vie for his brother who does not lie!
How can I find God you don't know what we are told about it, we are told about it, it is not true but we are not need for a donation of sin?
The does not know if Eliud Tawi Nyauhenga is a parent of God also, he has also called me, the love he made to attract the person to go back to the group.
