Zitto Zuberi Kabwe cheering.
APR of 29, 2015.

The ACT-Wazalendo party has written a letter to parties that make up Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) waiting to know the conditions of joining that and to be done its part, it has been known.
However, while three parties among four parties that make up that union that have already been forced to have been given that letter, many citizens have been told that three have received that letter while one when he refused.
According to the sources of this newspaper, the parties which were received by ACT's letter led by the deputy secretary general of the Party of Democracy and Development (CUF), Zitto Kabwe, National Examination for Democracy and Development Party (CUF), Nazareth Lebbi was alleged not to have given that letter.
The secretary general of ACT, Maauni (right), left the newspaper that his party was awarded a letter to ask for Ukawa last Saturday, April 25, 2015, for all parties that make up Ukawa but one that will allow him to go back.
"It is true that we have written a letter to four parties that make up Ukawa because the goal of the letter was two and the second is to explain the intention of wanting to join that union and the second is asking what procedures are supposed to be followed before the party was allowed to join that union.
"This is because if we have explained in the past, we have our intention to form the opposition whose main aim is to strengthen CCM from power, there are leaders of Ukawa who said that we are supposed to write a letter and have done so.
Even so, the letter that our people were taken to offices of the NLD Party, NCCR, and CUF appeared to be received and we were given the reason but I think it was not very bad so that the project implemented one of the requirements of wanting to enter Ukawa, "he said.
All the leaders of the political party including the chairman Freeman Mbowe and his assistant, John Mnyika and Salum Mwalimu are in the provinces in various political tour with the aim of building that party.
The efforts of getting all to talk about the issue did not be able to succeed until Monday.
Inside Ukawa.
At the same time, this newspaper has been informed that the top leaders of Ukawa were expected to meet on Tuesday this week for a special session where his great work is to look for how to agree about one presidential candidate of Tanzania, in the general elections this year.
Up to now, Ukawa are not supposed to agree on that issue while close to all parties that make up unity, if you remove the NLD that is the leaders that can decide to vie for the presidency if they will be prepared.
The followers of CUF believe that their chairperson, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, is the one who is supposed to carry the Ukawa flag in the election due to his experience in that issue, a scholar together with his leadership ability.
CHADEMA who believe that his secretary general, Doctor Wilfried BSlaa, is expected to carry the Ukawa flag in the election due to a large number of votes in the year 2010, who got a lot of votes than any candidate of that position through the opposition, in history of Tanzania.
Last week, NCCR-Revolution, through its general director, Faustine Ndungulile, said that a person who is supposed to carry the Ukawa flag is the chairperson of that party, Doctor George Kivumbi, due to his heart, she is a must that she was born after Uhuru of Tanganyika, December 9, 1961, Doctor Masumbuko Kwileka.
Although he did not say one directly, the statement that the Ukawa candidate is supposed to have been born after Uhuru of Tanganyika, that is the year 1961, can't know Lipumba and Slaa who were born before Uhuru is an appropriate one.
Among the big challenges that Ukawa are continuing with that presidential position is true that according to the existing laws, the party provides a presidential candidate what is required to give his running mate.
This means that, we will have one of its party members to take a membership card for another party so that he can have the reputation of vying for and up to now, there is no party that has shown one with the intention of getting that position.
Another solution of Ukawa is the election law of Tanzania that wanted parties to get great benefits due to the large numbers of the presidential candidate and members of parliament.
This means that if you will give the presidential candidate and not CUF or NCCR, because it is that they will get a great offer after the elections and therefore they will have more strength more than other parties.
