
The two servants of Monduli.

It has been written by Bashir Nkoromo, Monduli.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

The council of councilors of Monduli Council has sacked two servants and two others being given a stern warning to the department of land, following the lawyer of the council to return to work after winning the case that was caught.

That step has come after the suspects, James Mkumbo and Leonard Mkwavi was sacked after he was trapped with two seasons of seven that were accused every one while Adil Mwanga and Leonard Haule was given a stern warning because of violating the law of public service.
The chairman of the council of Monduli, Isack Joseph has said that, explained to the journalists yesterday that they have discussed in a long time concerning the servants and that's when they completed the decision to chase them.
The director of the council, Stephen Europe, said that he will work to him by the head of the district without touching on someone else and that he will lead that council by following the regulations and procedures.
In addition, the director urged the workers especially the executives of the villages and ward to ensure they are following the procedures and regulations as calling for public meetings in time and anyone who is found going against that law will take its course.
However, he urged the councilors to cooperate with the servants, especially the villages, villages and wards that have been working hard to ensure the citizens get services in time and to give their contributions for the purpose of development of that district.
"Monduli is all of us, it is a must for us to work hard to ensure that the citizens get services at time and I will not affect these servant who will solve the service laws, so as to ensure development can reach the citizens on time," insisted Europe.
He noted that anyone who will be found has implemented development projects under the level and who will not do a meeting of citizens in the neighborhood, village and ward at the time he will have withdrawn from him.
