Two people have been killed since once in two different events of Butiama and Serengeti in that province for people to take action against the law and the cause of love is not seen in America.
In the first event, the army to explode is one time is holding cold drinks, immediately they have come into his home for a period of the deceased's police force in Mwanza province, the senior assistant commissioner of Mgeta Police Station and later on claims that he had gone down because he had been charged.
Citizens of that area discovered a bullet.
It is not a sign of the attack by Slaa's different chapters.
Picture, first.
Stones as he died and later he hopes to sign him inside a person known as usual.
A group of people.
I am saying what is not only?
He went to five days to carry out a fire accident after the claims that the accident without participating in the Zakhem stadium, being the late mother of food medicine for motorcycle riders, Jose said they will be paid I have been a man.
So, we are doing that this issue has become difficult.
This is a person called me if I will be your friend that she has given the natural video.
She was a patient with a person who does his call.
If you need me.
I took your topic when I was told I have touched me.
Then and she knows her he was killed.
How did you get?
After getting that accident, the person explained to him.
This is after seeing that Mister has dropped out in the second event, the commander of Serengeti, has said that one person has been killed in the Serengeti festival in Mwanza province, for what is claimed to be awarded by one of the love that was mentioned by one suspect, Eric Sambu.
Therefore, you want to say that, it is a farmer of actions, he was killed by being subdivided.
Food on the left is the left and someone who is called Mwita Wambura.
The previous city of police has revealed that the cause of the murder.
Certainly, this becomes a love moreover, the commander has said to explain events that you can be done so that if you take it's way, if you start and get them into law media is to give a call on drivers to obey the law and also to inform them too.
