
The renovation of Dodoma Airport.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

While the renovation of Dodoma Airport has reached 100 percent, there have been an increase of planes that involve every day from three planes up to nine.

Speaking during the interview yesterday, the Manager of Dodoma Airport, Julius Mlonganile said the completion of the renovation will enable many planes to start its journey to come to Dodoma and therefore reduce the cost of fare.
Mlenda said the renovation has been completed in September 2nd this year and it has the ability to attend an airplane with a capacity to carry 90 passengers.
"The stadium has been completed by 100 percent with the purpose of the primary and the remaining points," said the manager and added that in air travel, there are stakeholders who use plot including business people, public institutions, international institutions, government institutions, government institutions and government institutions.
All those who use air transportation by their main complaint, the fare is big, "he said and added that a cry for stakeholders in air travel is a big cost of transport due to the existence of two planes outside the transport sector which are At Air, which has the ability to carry 13 passengers each.
"There are also planes that are not involved in the schedule and plans of leaders which are not in the program together with international organizations that have been using tax planes," he said.
And the Project Manager of the councilors of the stadium from the Tanzania Airports Authority (TAA), Oystein Michelsen, said the last time the renovation of the stadium was held in the year 1976 and 2005, made not to understand the construction of renovation, but the availability of money has been an obstacle to the internet and you came to the renovation.
He said due to the directive by President John Magufuli to move to Dodoma, the stadium started to be conducted.
Previously, the construction was expected to be completed within six months and lost two goals whereby it was coming up to 20th July this year at a place where all primary schools should be completed and all of them have been completed and all of them have been completed.
