Diana Edward of Miss Kinondoni who had managed to fight with female circumcision.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today, September 2016.

Diana Edward is a girl who is 18 years old, is a strong man and beauty.

The body of the body is one of the things that don't know more when you meet with him for the first time, that is Miss Kinondoni 2016, where the beauty is happy to contest for the first time after winning Miss Tanzania competition which is expected to take place any time from the end of October this year.
Diana says that apart from beauty, his aim is to make sure that he help the community in different issues and running his own business, he says even before participating in Miss Kinondoni or be Miss Ubungo the third position, he was participating in educating the Maasais' and early marriages.
"It's a long time I have participated in offering the education to educate my community of the Maasai clothes to stop sexual excitement then I have been doing this by giving education to the community, but also through my Facebook page that I have used to educate them about my Facebook page.
"I thank you for this work because I have been able to reach many people and to get this matter, and a good thing to me is to be a good ambassador to educate others to leave each other," says the beauty.
In addition, Diana asked the government and other stakeholders in the beauty issues to help in preparing a special article (they are in the picture) for its project to fight with abusive culture of the Maasais' which will also help with other communities which have been affected by all the participants which had been from the camp.
Statistics of the World Health Organization (WHO) inspected a girls and 95 million women in the world have arrested 26 million women who are in the age of 10 to 14 years since the year 2010, a total of 15 percent of women in Tanzania have been sacked.
Statistics of the report of the census on people and housing of the year 2012, shows that female circumcision is taking place in Mara province by 71 percent and Arusha 60% are among the African countries that are leading in early marriages, holding the third position.
Other statistics show that Tanzania has 26 percent while Mali is leading by having 72 percent, Nigeria is 57 percent and Uganda 60 percent of its participation in the Kinondoni Municipality, a donation that he made in collaboration with the organizers of the Kinondoni region, Rahama estate Entertainment and Gebby Company Limited Company.
In order to fulfill its responsibility to the community and its efforts in fighting with the deaths of mother and child, Diana also has been able to contribute to medical equipment's Mortuary in the ward of mother and child.
"It is a small donation but it has been a lot of support to the mother and the child, because you can sell 900 women, most of them have been looking for medical equipment since they are building a mother and the child is in the whole country."
When he spoke about his participation in the Miss Tanzania competition that is expected to take place at the end of October, Diana says, he has prepared himself with a request, let him come out and come up with great creativity so that I am prepared to live well and every participant from his area having a habit, "he says.
He added that "the aim of my thirst is to take the crown of Miss Tanzania. I have been observing my competitors because I will continue with other community activities because I will continue with other community activities and bring change in different sectors.
Diana also says he is very happy with Miss Tanzania 2005, Nancy Katunga who emerged Miss World Africa and became his thirst with Ukawa that you want to win, there are some owners and other stakeholders who are participating in the decision, that now he is a person and not the beauty field, "he says.
Diana says that due to the concept of being part of the community even his parents were forced to support the decision to participate in the competition of beauties, but now they have been supporting him, but after getting into the beauty, my parents did not want to be seen, "he says.
Diana is the first child of a family of five children from the family of Edward Loy and Doriva era, Edward Lowassa (primary education) in Arusha Secondary School and finally the year 2015 had graduated from form four at Arusha secondary school on the purpose of improving tax issues.
