Our president does not lie on the jersey of football.
Dec 18, 2014.

To say the truth, it was a good thing to see President Jakaya Kikwete's exercise in his morning in a picture that was distributed to the media houses last week.

In the official report, the State House said that President Kikwete is doing exercises as one of the conditions of doctors from his health condition he has with.

Private, this was not my first time to see the pictures of the president doing exercises for two years ago, there are also enough pictures, it shows President Kikwete doing exercises in Arusha.

And even in his talks with the England news agency (BBC) last year, President said that at his home he is going to make exercise.

This is a president who has a procedure to do exercises for a whole time or to the advice of doctors, Siwema who said something in his pictures of Arusha.

However, in these recent pictures, I think it is not same as the president of Tanzania, making it not the picture that has left up with this article, President Kikwete seems to have scored the jersey of Real Madrid of Spain, a logo of Real Madrid of Spain.

There are several problems in the wearing of this wearing that it is a must that it will be able to take care for its first priority, how can I vote for Real Madrid the jersey of Real Madrid though here at home there are singers of various teams that have been successful than Real Madrid.

I am a fan of Simba Club (and even I don't like you very much), I would have tried a lot about Yanga soccer club and Simba fans should leave you very much but to ensure he would be understood to because all lovers of soccer here in the country know her love for Yanga.

When the president gave the jersey of that club is a sign of that club's sign in the support of his team and support this one has a great benefit from the club and even the second one can increase the sales for the referees of the concerned club.

Most popular clubs in the world usually do not know when they want famous people who help with their products.

Business, Yanga don't read it but if Real Madrid will have found a group photo with their jersey, they can be able to use it that even the president of Tanzania failed to use business by using the back of our president.

It's not that Real Madrid will be satisfied with this step of Kikwete, but the issue here is that they could have put up the jersey of Yanga and went with attraction than Real Madrid.

They could also put on the jersey of Mbeya City, Stand United, Simba (I don't know if he has not tolerate), Ndanda FC and even the national team would have been attraction to about more good debate more than Madrid.

Let me think about the citizens of Mtwara if you feel happy to see President Kikwete receiving the jersey of their team but I see my brothers from Mtwara on that day they would be rushed to shop to ensure they gave them as their president.

It is a very difficult time but it has a great benefits if it would be able to move forward in the area which he mentioned.

And there is also a business issue among these big companies to help Siwema who is faced with a lot of things that we know while South Africa did not know.

It should be remembered that Sihana says there is a famous company in Germany, although today it can be a famous company, you can hear them tomorrow it has gone into him because of being involved in non-related issues.

If this is emanating from things like this, we have not received in the previous days (in the past), this picture by President while wearing the jersey of Siwema who is believed to have a bad effects to Kikwete, and the nation as a whole.

That is why many presidents of the world do not like to put on anything that is related to business companies to remove the use of things like a phone that you can avoid them.

President of the country can also support the business marks of our company in our country if it will be seen by doing that there is the economic benefits to his nation.
