Zitto Kamuntu Epharaim casting a question.
Maximilian Arnold, 2014.

October 30th this year, the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe, was given an official award of the services of the Social Security Funds category at an event that took place in Zambia.

This award has been made for the first time by the Union of Social Security Fund in East and Central Africa (with Issa A) by valuing his great contribution that he made in enabling thousands of cooperatives to benefit from those services.

Zitto Kabwe, its own kind, he saw the opportunity to help people whose culture have not benefited from the services of this fund.

Here in the country, people who were affected with this bags are those who have been employed in the official sector of people who are not employed in that sector were outside the services.

What he did, Zitto Kabwe is making a campaign and finally make groups like the farmers, fishermen and nuclear weapons and put in groups that need to be given those services.

This member of parliament has not reached there in his efforts, he enables artists and football players to get and benefit from funds that are in the country.

More than farmers, today people like Linex, Diamond, Juma Kaseja, Amri Kiemba and others have joined the services of these organizations, something that was not normal in the past years.

It's not just one or two times I've heard, Zitto Zuberi to forgive me in Chemistry and maize chemicals as from the city to join these services, this is an issue that is in his heart and not that he did not just know.

Why should we enable you to join social security fund?

This answer by this matter is more than the constituency for Zitto Kabwe, in Mkonde Village and Matopeni Ward in Kigoma Rural.

In those villages, the lives of farmers have been changed and in speed after joining the reserve services, because members of the reserve fund, the farmers have started parties to set and borrow and get loans.

Those loans have risen up well and at the time of getting well and at time, the services are now used to get better health services at the centers and clinic as a result of their membership card.

The habit of brotherhood or right is a problem when a farmer knows it or to get a problem now, there is everything that can be a threat in the next few years.

In talks with this newspaper recently, the director general of the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), Joseph Masikitiko, said that for now they have made more new party members in a period of one year.

Kigoma alone, says Zitto Kabwe, new members including NSSF had joined the NSSF fund through its special project of helping farmers.

What are the data of the church?

There is no one who has good information about the importance of the Social Security Funds, as the executive director of the National Identification Authority (GEPF), Daud Msangi, who once giving me a very good explanation.

Basically, Msangi believes that if that bags will reach us from their numbers, it will be a great impetus in the growth of the economy of the country.

"If our funds will be stable and with great strength, even our need for investment from foreign (FGM) to reduce because bags will be a good investor.

"Bags with the ability to be able to build factories, roads, big buildings, bridges and other things without depending on the foreign people, this bags are very important," he said.

According to the director general of the authority of supervision and control of Social Security Fund (SSRA), Irene Uwoya, for now is eight percent of the power here in the country has joined the fund's services.

As 20 percent of the spread of the solar energy being supported by the bags of bags, he says that the value of that bags will be equivalent to 40 percent of the whole nation of our nation.

The biggest challenge now is how to bring a lot of groups more to join that fund and that is the work that Zitto has decided to make it very much.

In the last month of the last month of the Chief Economist Intelligence Unit, the contribution from the community reserve that are the economy of their nations has been set in public.

Norway, for example, the value of its National Social Security Fund is equivalent to 85 percent of the whole National Identification Authority and that is the meaning that in America, the magazine has shown that the value of bags is equivalent to 113 percent of the National Identification Authority.
