
France will take the Euro 2016 season, what do you do?
History of the year 2000 can and return to France to win the Euro championship which is only in the European soccer teams or Euro 2016.
The final stages are expected to be played on 10 stadiums from June 10 to July 10, 2016 and already all 24 teams that play the competitions have started in France.
This competition takes place once after four years, the last time took place in the police and Ukraine countries in 2012, being the first time for those countries to be the host, where Spain won the crown after beating Italy 4-0 in the final match that was played at NSK stadium, Ukraine.
We are all witnesses that all the teams participating in the Euro 2016 had a long-term plans to prepare so as to make sure they qualify to participate in the competitions, since the European teams are understood by having a good program since even those who failed to participate in Euro 2016 were seen soccer.
Here there is something to learn our place where we want our national team to do well in various international competitions like the African finals or the World Cup which is having a long-term plans to prepare and have a good program to our players.
All the days there is no one that is found or the same way, what is required is to start a long-term program for now, because of four years, although it is a short time, to make us achieve our goals.
Playing the World Cup, it needs plans, goals and preparations for the players for a short period and long-term results, but not to do preparations for the main preparations.
We cannot qualify if we have no commitment to achieve those goals and we are required to also prepare players of different age of talents that can compete in a high level.
If it is a person that you see our players of Tanzania when they are playing various international matches, you will discover that players of this generation are enough for three things.
Those things are the mind of the game, the body and Stamina said that players are supposed to use a lot of patriotism and receive the ball, getting goals, prevent and attractive football, to read the game quickly, to use the balls.
Our players are also required to have Stamina that they will enable them to play soccer and fast, a situation that will enable them to play soccer to attract and the ball to move forward.
Likewise, our players are required to have any bodies that has made exercises for the purpose of fighting so as to get victory and that situation will make players used to recognize the importance of their talents and protect their bodies.
Apart from those three things, also our players are required to know the importance of being unable, patriotism and fighting for the nation, to stop the fish and look for victory for one goal.
I believe there is no one that is under the sun, therefore I believe there is a day Tanzania will qualify to play the World Cup or finals of African countries, but not for this plans we have recently.
It is a must to learn from the mistakes we have done immediately because without doing so that there is no need to succeed and those finals will continue to be our dreams.
Yes, I see if you are in our country, we shall begin using teams to play in Euro 2016. I will fly a France that began by scoring 2-1 goals, there are Germany or Spain, a team that supports the team?
