It has also been said.
At the same time, President Jakaya Kikwete is in Kigoma province where he has been a meeting to communicate with Bishop Gwajima of the Catholic Archdiocese of Arusha where he has visited that area since the explosion and he has also moved to some of the families found in a trap due to the explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a bomb.
Moreover, the leader of the opposition camp in parliament, Freeman Mbowe when he visited the victims of that event at the Mount Meru hospital.
He has said the security and security agencies should know what's the intention of inside people.
What is the event.
And Mkomagu led that incident of a bomb exploded.
The revolutionary government of Zanzibar has condemned the terror attack since last Sunday in Dar es Salaam city where many of the Catholic church were killed and more than sixty other people were injured after being attacked from an accident while the first vice president of Zanzibar, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, together with condemning that incident, he has urged the union of the union to take action of looking for and get them from Emmanuel Massaka.
Speaking at the public meeting that took place at the former grounds of the former town of Singida.
In addition, he said that the revolutionary government has been confirmed by the action by looking for irregularities and harmony in the moment that has caused the deaths and fruits that have not given them, the government has claimed that it will take the action of looking for those involved and open those acts and not something to leave here in the country.
I think I have used it.
And on behalf of you when you see.
We are expecting to be the judge when they eat all of us.
Or or money?
They ask you followed keenly.
But the one who is infected.
This was the first time for us to be found, he also praised the acts of religion and tribalism.
And coming out during elections, I request women we have been able to cause violence and abuse of peace in the country.
A white blood is very little in getting.
The grave of the behavior of entering the class.
The ethics that were tested will be known as the first vice president of the Democratic Republic Seif Sharif Hamad who is also the secretary general of the party, I cannot be in Singida province for a one-day tour where together with other things, he has urged the lives of his party and that of that party.
