
The councilors of Ukawa are taking place.
When he gave an order to bid farewell to the city center, he raised for me.
Bakari Kiango, The Citizen of SALIA and Mzamiru Yassin.
Mayor of Ilala Municipality, Charles Kuyeko, speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday to oppose the order of the director of the municipality.
Dar es Salaam city the councilors of Ukawa of Ilala Municipality, have condemned the directive by the director of the municipality, Isaiah Shoki speaking to the directive by the director of the municipality, Isaya Mnguru said that the traders who were doing their activities are not official to leave.
On Thursday of last week, he ordered the business people especially those who are doing their activities in Kariakoo areas to leave and that today he has taken the operation of those days to join the security and security agencies.
He urged the business people to relocate to four markets which the municipality has built for their purpose.
The chairman of the councilors of Ukawa Honorable Luhaga Mpina, claimed yesterday that the rumors has given that decision without involving themselves with the mayor of Ilala, Charles Kuyeko.
He said markets of Kivule-Square, Ukonga, and the musical band which has been built for the purpose of those business people, has not yet been given its infrastructure including the construction of toilets and water pipes.
"It should be understood that he doesn't know a lot of this step, but the rumors continued to involve councilors so as to give ideas which they would have helped to improve this program."
Said Mjema.
He said that despite the fear of collaborating with the council of councilors, he would have given some time the traders to prepare well for a period of two days he gave them to leave the areas.
"
On his part, Kuyeko, claimed to be given instructions by the rumors yesterday called a meeting with the press so as to understand that order.
However, that mayor was unable to do that on claims of not being involved.
"I went to support his decision because my council of councilors did not know what is happening more to hear in the media," claimed Kuyeko.
The councilor of Tabata Primary School, Patrick Masong has said that his area has been set aside because of the business people, he said that he cannot get them because that area has a conflict by the council.
The member of the union of small business people, Idd Omary said they have agreed to be a hundred in markets that they were given because they were not involved in the process of all the director.
"He explained the witnesses not to be the representative in yesterday's session (the day before yesterday), that you met with the leadership of Ilala Municipality. We also ask the markets that they had to have good infrastructure, but it's not true, they are not toilets or water," he said.
Speaking about the claims by those councilors, he said that he was surprised by their statements because there are things that they had agreed with his mayor saying that he will not hesitate to leave each other again for more talks.
