
Minister Barwan.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

It has been published on 29th October, 2016.

Finally, the coach of Yanga, Hans Van Der Pluijm has returned again to the group to continue with his task of training Yanga where he already had already sent away away.

Pluijm has returned after the efforts of the minister for internal affairs, Mwigulu Nchemba, fruits, where he was running sessions with Yanga leaders and the coach for three consecutive days and finally, that coach decided to continue with his work in the Jangwani Club.
Speaking to journalists today, Nchemba said he has not seen the reason of Pluijm to leave because that coach has led Yanga for great success and that the matches that are remaining in the league is difficult for their part.
I am a new member of Yanga, Hans Pluijm, there was one thing with administrative leadership, where the leadership was not calling you the teachers, but I have spoken to both sides, but I have spoken to both sides, but I have talked with all two sides, "said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the farm after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches," said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the farm after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches, "said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the farm after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches," said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the pitch after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches, "said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the pitch after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches," said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the farm after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches, "said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the pitch after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches," said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the pitch after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches, "said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the pitch after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches," said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the pitch after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches, "said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the pitch after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches," said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the pitch after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches, "said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the pitch after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches," said Nchemba, he wanted to leave the pitch after leading Yanga in a total of 124 matches, "said
In 19 matches of the semi-season of the year 2014, he won 11 matches and scored two matches, while in four consecutive matches since last year he won 66, 2 draws and scored 20 points while Nchemba said that the club has refused the request to resign from Pluijm because he doesn't see the reason to leave that rapper.
Pluijm who resigned early this week after his resignation and the leadership of the club to bring a new coach, George Lwandamina being questioned for him, saying that there is a surprise of the coach who wanted to give him a chance to carry the head coach.
But after signing up players one day before the Vodacom Premier League match against JKT Ruvu, the team won 4-0, the minister for internal affairs, Mwigulu Nchemba, has intervened in that issue.
Minister Mwigulu who is a lover with Yanga member of Yanga, first, asked the leadership of returning Pluijm and later he went to speak with that coach and also explained him not to return.
Baraka said that the leadership has written, he wrote a letter to ask him to ask him and put back home at work as required to lead the technical bench of Yanga against Mbao FC tomorrow.
Yanga's leadership wants to dismiss him from all his opponent, Juma Mwambusi, the goalkeepers coach Juma Pondamali, and the coach Hafidh Saleh of the youth, assisted by patriotic Charles Boniface Jacob, Manyika Peter, coach and the manager, Dojo Janja.
Pluijm who was born in January 3, 1949, was able to teach Yanga in the second phase after playing for a half of the season 2014 before storming and playing for Saudi Arabia and his position was taken by Marcio Maximo, who was playing for a period of being evicted and Pluijm to return.
