
An earthquake broke 6 goals and injured several.
Climate change in India, approximately six people were killed and others injured on Monday after an earthquake which is 67th weight that is facing the north east of India and caused fear among the citizens while others disclose it in loam soil.
According to one of the person to the country, he died on behalf of the death of a heart after the incident.
Mister Musoma. members of the national council to deal with the disasters in India said that buildings in the village area are not in the main city of Manufacturing Company that were destroyed badly.
"Five people have been confirmed to remain in the 33 others, they have been tested and injured in the village area," he told the AFP news agency.
One officer in the training being removed from the area that was affected by one of the main hospital in Moshi town, he said that more than 50 people have been admitted to the hospital having different injuries.
A resident of Para town, Deonice Chamulesile has been thrown that his house had been destroyed badly, he said that the tragedy caused the fear among the citizens.
"Approximately one thing was a present to the earthquake that happened, while others were being thrown out," Landscrona "has been sacked from the AFP news agency through the phone.
"People were shocked and asked to sit at the roads and other open areas while hundreds of them were outside different hours following them.
According to the non-communicable diseases in Kenya, Irish GS, an earthquake that occurred during the 29-kilometer race on the north, west of Saint.
According to the news agency of the Ambassador Press Club in India, the buildings were destroyed in the area that were affected while distribution of electricity was going on to them.
Police in Dakar, said that 40 people are being stolen from the same way, one of the injured being one of the injured as one of the university who defected from playing with four stories.
The situation was that in a business city of Guests who fell in the country, where one journalist of AFP news said that the residents were faced with shock after they were revealed by the earthquake.
On Twitter network, the prime minister of India, Narendra Modi, said that already he has spoken to the management of Asser's management about the effects of the two sides.
Seven constituencies in the east of India are in the area that is in the high risk of being arrested by a bomb attack.
There is no full report about the effects of the earthquake especially in the border of India and Myanmar, a different area that was affected by waterfalls due to the rains that poured recently.
According to Joy GS may be the number of people who came out of 100 and 1000 people.
