The deceased has called Ali Kilimba.
I don't know if there are no people who don't know if I am a famous musician from America and in the world. I listen to me, my heart was filled with sadness and tears when he gets to get in his songs every time they can be used in America.
It is a voice that carries a lot of joy and many years of harassment and despising Tanzanians is showing off through her real picture of how people and especially from our culture, what we live.
Likewise, in the community of things that you do with your contribution that it is not easy for those, we have no way, but we are continuing to fight with this environment until we are required to make sure that our contribution is no benefits to the nation.
Whoever doesn't put a person, the poor life is not easy, most of them came out and their lives to be completed because of color to your skin, this is not saying that there is no success, there is no success, there is no success, there is a period of work hard to be done without problems.
There are people living in fighting and fight itself so that all of their lives are required to compete with the system that you are not being fair to us, after seeing how our colleagues need to put opportunities and development to the citizens of the country, including those living in the country.
At home, for those abroad, they are the last stronghold without having communication with the stronghold inside, no reason to strengthen the stronghold is to come with skills and knowledge even if it is small compared to big international contributions.
At the time I listening to me what he sang and explained in his songs the fight and challenges which he found in, and how he knows the country that when she was born does not accept it, it does not accept it, is that the love will grow home is big.
At the time you go back to the village to realize that the reception.
Love for Tanzania is that those living in Tanzania are alleged to have shown through actions, from Stockholm, currently, preparations are continuing to give their contribution to help victims of the disaster, our brothers from Kagera.
The Vice President of Sweden Civil Aviation Authority (TanSCA) Professor Norman Sigallah who is in the race to be prepared and put strategies to collect our contribution to our brothers from Kagera. There is no one who died.
The world has lost a lot of heroes, many of them were injured and they know that their lives were in danger of them being the elder of Ali Kilanga, that until now he is lost in the history of history of the deceased, Ali Kilimba and she has gone into work when he visited his nation on how she lost her.
Music comes when these are seen without being mentioned in the previous songs, we have a lot of actions that are ongoing without knowing their contribution like private people or as a group.
We are the most natives of Tanzania who live in the country, we have a contribution like this, and serve us because we are doing a lot of time, we are doing a lot of work hard, all of our community and we see the success of the community and we see the success of the community.
If the UN institution will help to put infrastructure that it will make us prepare and be able to help home without any problems, that road that will enable us to coordinate all political activities and encourage others to use that system to invest and help in building the country.
