
Samia the guest of honor at the festival of one woman.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

The Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan is expected to be the guest of honor at the festival of a big entrepreneur (IMR), which is a bridge to submit the competence of thoughts of women entrepreneurs in the national development of women.

Speaking to the press in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the chairman of Kilimanjaro Province, Eliasa Mrema said the festival will take place from October 31 to November 5, this year that slogan is "buy products of the woman an entrepreneur, contributing to the National Identification Authority."
Mrema said the festival was started in order to help entrepreneurs after realizing that women entrepreneurs are faced with various challenges including a small ability of attaining reliable markets, lack of capital and better areas for generating products.
Furthermore, he said they found that entrepreneurs are faced with the difficulty of availability of information including being unable to sustain the broadcasting costs of the business or services offered by tax payment.
He said the festival of Moalimu, was officially started in the year 2006 in the country under the World Health Organization (WPFD) and until now there has been a lot of success including the response of many women getting in sustainable entrepreneurship, the growth of the products and services of women entrepreneurs.
He also said that we have helped many women to get their expertise and build capacity of solving their businesses together with building their capacity for women entrepreneurs to reach foreign markets including the East African Community, including America, Asia and Europe.
He said the festival will be attended by staff participants from various provinces in Tanzania Mainland and in the islands together with participation of parties for women entrepreneurs, financial institutions, health and health services together with all those using Tanzanian products.
However, he said in that festival there will be different events including an interview at the business exhibition and to announce the products of women, the use of drug trafficking as well as various topics that will be discussed at the seminar.
There will also be participants from neighboring countries, including Kenya, Uganda and Malawi.
