
Viate of UKAWA.
Maximilian Arnold, 2014.

Some of the party members of the opposition parties have agreed to leave the union of opposition parties in UKAWA which if their parties will decide to leave the local government elections that had been planned to take place next month, has been known.

This is mentioned that the first examinations by UKAWA since four parties that form that union will not enter into an official agreement to stop one candidate in all the elections from October this year.

Some of the members who are in parties that are in that union who talked with this newspaper explained that they are ready to leave if their parties will stop because of unity.
"There are people we have begun to compete in the local government elections last year, today I get a person here and then I have been able to convince him to abandon the presidency but not at the lower levels," said one of the politicians who defected from Mwanza province.
Complaints like those candidates in the lower levels have also said this newspaper from other provinces of the Lake Region and South African parties which are the strength in UKAWA which has also political parties.
It is expected to have quarter-finals in Mwanza, Kilimanjaro, Kagera, Dar es Salaam, Lindi and Kigoma among the candidates of the opposition parties.
We we understand that our leaders have a good intention but for this good cooperation they had started at the councilor's general elections, parliamentary and presidential elections because currently people are ready to contest for the leadership of Lushoto region.
This newspaper has been told that the activities of UKAWA wants to win the government's leadership in the 2015 general elections that will depend on how his leaders will follow the competition there between its senior members.

The last week of this newspaper explained the way the heads of UKAWA which made an agreement about the division of power among its head leaders, but the problem is explained to be at the low level.
The following are some of the regions that are mentioned to be able to put in UKAWA in a heavy examination.

Vunjo, Kilimanjaro.
The information from UKAWA states that James Mbatia, the chairperson of NCCR party is the candidate of UKAWA to take the position of Prime Minister if the union will take place the power.

According to the constitution of Tanzania, the prime minister is expected to be the nominated member of parliament and therefore the step of vying for Vunjo Province can sign him close to the possibility.
Mbatia was the first member of parliament for that constituency during the general elections of 1995, but he gets the opposition from the director of parliamentary issues of CHADEMA, John Mrema, who has already explained his intention of wanting to contest for that constituency.

Mrema was vying for that position without success in 2010 but he takes the first time if it was to introduce himself up and now it is ready for competition.
Ubungo.
This region for now is being held by John Mnyika who is coming from CHADEMA and he has won the contest for one period but more than CCM who have managed to return the possibility of competition from Julius Mtatiro of the CUF.
Mtatiro was vying for that position in the general elections of the year 2010, but it was said that he was unable to do because Mnyika had been vying for that constituency in the year 2005.
Mtatiro, at the moment with a few responsibilities after leaving the position of the deputy secretary general of CUF, has been reported to vie for that position again in the next elections.
This newspaper has been in other regions like Tunduru, Igunga, Bukoba, Mwanza, Temeke and Kigamboni where opposition parties have great candidates.
