
Business people in Arusha have agreed to be President Magufuli.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

It has been reported, 20 October, 2016.

The big business people of Arusha province have congratulated the good work that was done by President John Magufuli in his first year in power, being together with succeeding to control the use of public funds and restore integrity and accountability in work.

They said this yesterday at a meeting with the Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo in the city.
He met with them to listen to the problems and challenges that are facing them in their daily activities.
Businessman Nicholaus Zacharia said President Magufuli has done well for paying taxes, to bring honor to integrity in the government and to fight against corruption and misuse of public funds that are used to cause conflicts without having a special procedure.
Duhia who is a lawyer, an agent of the accounts and the tax advice of the Power Breakfast program of Arusha, said that no one can be able to recognize President Magufuli has succeeded in a great extent.
He said and giving a request to Mrisho Gambo to be President Magufuli in the second year of his leadership is supposed to bring faith in peace to business people in the country so that they do work without fear.
And the Executive Director of A & B Primary School, Assa Mwakilembe, said that apart from wanting President Magufuli's work on his philosophy of here, ethics, he said he is also happy about how the work of work has come back to the government, while the government officials failed to work skillfully.
Non-Tayyar from Kibo Complex and Aqsa in Mount Meru has said that they have requested the government to strengthen the way to reduce the influx of taxes.
Gambo told them that the government will be stable and to protect themselves at home, the aim being urged them to work hard, without any restrictions.
In another step, President Magufuli spoke to the business people through mobile phone during that meeting by using the Mrisho Gambo that was built very much and to confirm that the government will perform well and to confirm that the government will perform well, while he termed the appointment of Gambo to be the Provincial Commissioner of Arusha.
He said after speaking with him, the president asked to speak with the leader of the business people of Arusha province, Walter Makusanya and explained that Arusha is required to have peace and harmony and do business without fear and paying tax worth.
Mahege confessed to speak with President and insisted that business people should not be afraid and they should report the directors of the government who do work with threats from yesterday in the afternoon, a letter that was divided into state house while the citizens is divided into a view about the letter saying it is true.
Businessman Richard Nkingwa, she visited the auctioning company to write a letter to destroy the state house and write a letter to break the appointment of the Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, an act that was taken to be a lesson to those involved in the social media networks and a rumor that has spoilt the government of the fifth phase.
