
Madenge doesn't launch the 72 villages of Masasi, Tunduru district.

It has been written by Muhidin Amri Abeid.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

The Anglican Church diocese of Masasi in Mtwara province has launched a project to improve the services of mother and child called AMCC in 72 villages in two districts in Mtwara Province and Tunduru district in Ruvuma province.

For Tunduru District, the project will be implemented in 66 villages and 17 wards, Masasi District, Mtwara Province six villages at Nangumbu Village.
The Project Manager of that project, Padre Thomas us has said that in that project, 14341 students will benefit from that project being part of the expansion of the project of improving community health and reliable food, which is run in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21 villages and will be implemented in 21
Padre Thomas Kashililah said that the new four-year project starting from April 2016 to March 2020, is funded by the government of Canada through the Global Education Organization and the Ambassador of World Habitat and Development Fund (Para).
That organization is owned by the Anglican Church diocese of Canada.
He said, the plan to start this project is for the fifth term government of moving to public institutions not to participate in implementing the policies and development plans of the country.
He said that although women and children are the ones involved in one place, the project for improving health care of all people through education has caused the availability of treatment equipment, agriculture, livestock and clean water and will increase the people an understanding of improving their lives through the growth of the community service.
He said another aim of that project is to give them pregnant women, women have shown that young children and children who are under five years in their environment.
On his part, the Bishop of the Anglican Church diocese of Masasi, Doctor James Mbatia, said the Diocese has been on the forefront to implement its second objective of enabling them to stop every human being or improve their lives by using the resources that surround him in his environment.
He said the aim is the one that made the Masasi District Council to deal with social services by starting the development projects of the community to improve health and their lives.
According to the Bishop of TEMESA, in a period of 10 years from 2006, Diocese has caused many social networks for two years of five years, including 390,536 billion shillings in Mtwara, Mtwara, Nachingwea, Lindi, Nachingwea, Lindi, Nachingwea, Lindi and Buchosa districts.
