By Raymond Minja, Dodoma.
Many youths who have graduated from colleges would get their work just after completing their studies and this is because of the absence of employment sources which are going in hand with the increase of graduates.
That situation contributes up to the wave of graduates that do not have employment in the country.
This employment problem has been a threat to the government because the level of production of the experts does not coincide with the employment opportunities that are there and it is not a surprising thing to be announced as employment for 300 people but at the interview they received non-shirts.
And many times other colleges have been contributing to a big amount because they have been producing youths who did not show the employment market that is available and this is because of the owners to look for more money.
Products that he is producing.
Most of the scholars here in the country have been faced with the dangers that they completed their high education is to be employed by the government or big organizations, when they believe that they can use education and knowledge they got in the universities to be self-employed and even give employment to other people.
Agriculture is the important sector that concern the lives of many people in the country because 75 percent of people living in the villages are depending on agriculture as employment and the only way to run their daily lives.
By recognizing the opportunities of employment that is in agriculture, youths that make sure that the youth development institution in Tanzania (Nakheel), have decided to stop their education on the ground so that it can be able to protect themselves and fruits.
That is after deciding to focus in eternal peace since the year 2013, shortly after finishing their high education.
Those youths who own the farm with a size of 300 girls in Mpwapwa district in Mpwapwa district, Dodoma province, want youths who complained to lack employment, support the recent statement of President Doctor John Magufuli that wants them to work instead of playing pool from the morning.
Speaking with the writer of this article that visited the farm recently, the Director of Geology, Jackson Kangeni, says that their institution has succeeded in a large extent to improve the youth capital that are in the estates through the agricultural sector.
Kanyasu says that after seeing the difficulty of the availability of employment they decided to join together with building that institution with an aim of improving the youth in the wave of poverty and ensuring the youths getting in different jobs including agriculture.
He says in the year 2013, they started with 25 youths and succeeded to sell their daughters in a farm which is 30 acres, they continued to get achievements that will enable them to get a farm with 300 acres, while the number of youths who engage in farming has been increasing up to 230 this year.
"Our aim is in a period of the next three years is to get them in this next three youths who are in the streets without caring about their education standards," said Kangeni.
Kangeni has said that while on the farm, the youths are diggers in groups of five people, whereby every group is given five acres of one season and use capital.
"Since we start doing this farming, our experience shows that every one acre, we are producing out of shillings 80 and 120 shillings, this money is equivalent to an average of 10 million shillings to 20 acres," he says.
He says that the amount that will remain after giving 25 percent of the whole income that is going to that institution for the purpose of helping other youths and the cost of use, are usually given to those youths as the capital that can use them into their agriculture in their farms.
Kangeni, says that more than 120 youths who had been killed economically through that plan by starting their farming projects, Make Me Sing.
One of the youths who benefited from that plan, Kassim MMagula says, "after completing the University of Dodoma the year 2012, I was not supposed to be able to wait for being employed while I have gone to the farm, and I urge her fellow youths through this institution of agribusiness.
