
The presidential news unit.
By Bashir Yakub.

While the government was very happy to fight with the new year challenges, there is a need to assess the responsibility of the presidential information unit (PSLE) which essentially has been unable to run its professional activities.
That unit that was done for several changes have been different from the previous ones, it is a result of the presidential institution and according to how it is running its activities to build or reduce that chapter, which is important to maintain faith in the union of citizens.
The recent incident that made an eruption of questions about the PSLE) which is a report that the unit was unable to answer the White House house about the police force along with lack of criminal status, that report had a mistake of fighting and many previously President Uhuru Kenyatta saw that his information before being sent.
It is in his message, the office of foreign affairs in America seems not only that Kenya's government will give more time to discuss the safety of security before the approval of the law.
The surprising thing that prohibits those reports show the presence of hostile among those nations, a step that may cause unnecessary accidents.
A few months ago, PSLE, doesn't involve the throat and political party for exchange words in public, while political leaders want that unit to be sold as a political workshop because if a lot of politics so as to protect the peace of the presidency.
The United Republic of Diamond has already been a leader of many people from Aden Hazard, and the Member of Parliament of Gadi, South, Moses Mtweve and among the other close to the opposition, and therefore the PSLE is supposed to avoid the small shame and to consider its responsibilities in selling government policies.
The information that is given by PSLE, has an issue that aim to increase the political crime in the country that is affecting the government performance.
The Kenyans do not hesitate to inform you on how CCM party is continuing to inform them, they have heard of him, the citizens want to hear of development plans for the president.
The directors of TOC have lost their work performance and sank in bad politics in order to deal.
The unit is supposed to give information that concern national issues and compatibility and not to be able to pay more Kenyans.
Similarly, the information that aim is that there is no special program to be followed when PSLE, explains that it is supposed to have the chief officer who is giving direction and to approve all the news before being sworn in.
The Spokesperson of the State House, Essar said, who is supposed to be the PSLE that is supposed to be responsible, instead of releasing a small officers to look for political popularity.
Leadership is actions and not the issue of strengthening good relations through the media.
False accusations that supports the invention of a lot about the presence of digital government, but the important thing is that many Kenyans have no votes are not aware of the eyes and promises of false accusations.
The communication officers in any government is important because they have the ability to strengthen and expand the laws of the government, most of the senior leaders of PSLE, which are journalists and are supposed to consider the regulations of the press without directed by personal feelings.
The painful truth is that the Executive Director of PSRC, they fear told him the king when he is nude and instead follow keenly.
