meanwhile President Aquino acknowledges the hard work of TESDA graduates to have a better life and help the country for its progress .
this was stated by the president in the largest conference on Technical Vocational students in Cuneta Astrodome yesterday .
here the president assured the capabilities of the Filipinos and creation of more opportunities for our poor fellowmen .
that is given attention by our colleague Rocky Ignacio .
<no-speech>
President Aquino led the largest conference of Technical Vocational scholars under the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority or TESDA at Cuneta Astrodome .
this is part of the acknowledgement of the president to the scholars who worked hard to become a good member of the society along with the improvement of their respective .
it reaches around six thousand trainees and graduates from the National Capital Region Region three and Region four A have attended where the outstanding tech-voc graduates are recognized in their journey on the path of rising from poverty .
there is a theme of recognition to TESDA scholar its goal is to show the implementation of the TESDA scholarship program which is one of the primary steps in creating additional jobs and resolving the issue on job mismatch .
we are honoring the transformation of the lives our scholars as well .
to all of you congratulations .
<no-speech>
as we sit as we sit on the post we have realized that one of the reasons why many in our fellowmen have no jobs and are left behind this is the job skills mismatch or the or the mismatch of the capabilities of the graduates to the needs of our industries .
hence more have landed in low quality of work with meager income .
in this situation how the family can be taken cared of and uphold the .
if we just let this kind of problem prevail we have also let the suffering of many of our fellowmen to lengthen and worsen .
so we immediately talked the industries we asked what are their needs .
they have returned it with solidarity where they themselves have accepted the trainees in their respective companies .
the course graduates of T_VEC is now at around eight point four million .
according to the president a thrifty utilization of the nation's fund under the Right Path is an effective step in delivering programs against poverty .
the Aquino administration allocated aide to various scholarship programs in TESDA such as the Training for Work Scholarship Program or T_W_S Private Education Student Financial Assistance or PESFA and Special Training for Employment Program .
currently there are eight point four million people beneficiaries of the training program by TESDA .
<no-speech>
course is what we are referring to here and those who graduated .
because there are graduates who take more than one course so that is not eight point four million people .
the training for work scholarship program or T_W_S_P is only one part of TVET .
with the help of the private sector we are training our scholars in different fields like in I_T_B_P_M semiconductor and electronic agri-fishery tourism general infrastructure and automotive .
this August two the count of graduates here is at eight hundred seventy-seven thousand nine hundred and forty-three .
what is good sir is that according to the study seventy-one point nine percent of this found jobs right away .
this is very far this is very far to the twenty-eight point five percent employment rate previously .
if looking at a number of industries employment rate is hitting ninety-one point twenty-six percent of those who graduated from TESDA and semiconductor and electronics industries in the Philippines or SEIPI .
just a little bit sir one hundred percent already or every graduate we have here will be able to find a job .
<no-speech>
I would like to guarantee that .
but if someone who graduated there does not look for a job maybe he won't get a job right ?
included in the benefits of T_W_S_P of Meryle Rengie we saw earlier and Christina .
we heard their story after -- after training in TESDA .
this only proves what we promised we fulfill not only in words but more importantly in action .
through the training that lasts a number of months we readily lay a decent and honest livelihood for many Filipinos .
that is the principle of the straight road .
the benefit should be given not the day after tomorrow but rather it should be now .
following this the president recognizes the transformation made by TESDA director general Joel Villanueva in the agency that was previously shrouded with controversy and anomaly .
the tax that you contribute to the fund of the nation is what helps in giving opportunities to many of our fellowmen .
it is really different when the leader is like secretary Joel Villanueva .
<no-speech>
because the one he replaced did a lot of things that you already know and even has the audacity to sue now .
Joel is one honest diligent and reliable public service .
Joel is when he was still studying is a known athlete .
whichever team he belongs Joel is considered as a star player .
of course you will only become a skillful athlete or player of diligence and dedication .
if there is discipline and you are ready -- to sacrifice in practicing Joel really worked hard for what he wants to achieve .
that's correct and for us whatever he is supporting or teaching he's not just being a know-it-all .
he is not -- contented with only reading books .
it is not enough for him to just learn theories and concepts of one field .
he does this in actual and tries .
now sir even being a barista Joel is also a certified barista .
<no-speech>
used talent and experience to further improve the offered programs of the agency .
I will just repeat sir maybe before there was an administrator of TESDA who is okay as long as we produce graduates .
Joel sir with the cooperation of our DOLE with us and other agencies of the government first of all there is sense in what is being studied secondly ensuring there is a future for graduates .
really complete ingredients .
for the television of %incomplete
