still fresh in the memory of relatives of national fist Manny Pacquiao is the difficulty he went through before achieving success in his career in boxing .
from Los Angeles California in America there is news on the spot by our partner who is Connie Sison .
Connie yes partner .
you know it really is tearful and until these hours -- talking about what they went through in the past what as one family yes that really suffered specially Manny those that he worked for he really said it cannot really be avoided if you do not really if looking back they really still cry right .
but what is good here yes that is where they see that even if they really suffered they went through suffering they saw that there is really hope just as long as you have diligence patience and also of course your dedication there in what is really given like Manny there in his craft what which is that boxing .
so earlier we have interviewed his aunt who is Lilia Lao and she has mentioned earlier that she really thinks she refreshes her memory when Manny and Bobby were still kids right and she said ever since really Manny here is really kind .
in fact that he also just mentioned it when he was sixteen years old or before turning sixteen years old he sells peanuts you see and he saw an opportunity to do boxing and he did this for the prize of fifty pesos and he actually won and he supposedly gave it immediately to his mother that is how kind he is .
and this Bobby here he allegedly cannot forget those times when his brother Manny himself cared also for them what really what it is they should be eating he gives to them instead .
that is really how Manny cares .
so earlier those two cannot hold back if not like becoming teary-eyed as they say .
even Bobby here who is really very macho is he not but really earlier when we interviewed him really he is slightly getting teary but the best thing is because of the difficulties that happened their family really appreciated more the success they are enjoying especially Manny what .
we can also do this made this story because this year this is Manny celebrating his twentieth year in the boxing industry .
so this several statements of his Tita Lilia and Bobby still about how they remember those sacrificed of Manny for them .
<no-speech>
so he makes -- he makes a way on how to make money on how --- to make money so we have provisions or money to buy rice -- I am thanking -- God -- that we were given this of course in our prayers we also met that what yes .
I only found out when his what went there in hey Manny has a boxing now .
is Manny going for a boxing now ?
<no-speech>
yes .
he was first seen boxing there at the plaza he brought peanuts okay ?
(()) left the peanuts there that were his merchandise .
and really also joined he was encourage there with the prize of fifty pesos fifty pesos ah .
aba when he got the prize of fifty pesos he was very happy .
ran to his mother (()) his mother the fifty pesos .
<no-speech>
that is partner what several only on those statements of refreshing of of the relatives of Manny here on how kind and of course they appreciate the success that Manny is now enjoying .
and Manny himself you see when we talked to him a few days ago he is saying that he's grateful -- very very grateful right he is thankful for those blessings and there are really so many blessings that he is receiving now and he will never ever forget so what he is also doing is really to share not only with his family right his relatives but also to all he can share his blessings with and -- to segue partner earlier he supposedly had an afternoon gym session -- session right but our national fist did not push through because he just chose to rest here in his house and he just woke up right a while ago after lunch when he got home from his training there was some sort of conversation here in his house and he has not -- he decided to just really take some rest because our national fist still has jet lag .
so he really said he knows what his body really needs and he really gives this as much as possible until he can still take care of course his strength so that tomorrow for his training again right .
so that's it for now the latest here in Los Angeles California .
partner back to you .
partner maybe that's where the mental aspect of the boxing game will enter on how to cull out the your past the background of that boxing I have mentioned this because some analyst said that really those five losses of this Manny can help against their fight with Floyd Mayweather .
because this Mayweather well has not -- has not tasted defeat yet but this Manny has tasted it already .
so as if this is an advantage for him partner .
is that what you also hear there in the camp of -- Manny partner ?
<no-speech>
definitely .
as really told by Manny partner that those his -- experiences right of defeat before he knows how it's like isn't it that he really knows that he could have still done something but he said like he's complacent at one point in his career so his win is somewhat affected so he will never ever repeat it he said he learned because of those incidents .
and now he knows what is the feeling like to persevere more especially for instance he knows this really give it all as told there in the giving of importance there on the talent -- he has boxing because it's one thing partner right which is really you are persevering for you to become good .
and it's another thing that you are really good because that is a talent given to you right by God and you are honing it further .
so in Manny's case we already know that he really has a gift what is this in his craft or in the job he enters in right which is boxing but what is good here is he appreciates he knows how is it appreciated and how will he be able to be more -- better in determination because he knows -- he also has like taste of like failure like (()) if we can call it that right -- his defeat there in his previous fight .
so he knows the bitterness right ?
he knows that it is not only him what he is telling he is not the only one feeling that pain but also all those surrounding him Filipinos who are hoping so he does not want to disappoint definitely so this is becoming the driving force he now said to excel more because he himself has told partner that -- this is the fight of his life .
but partner there is also one scenario seen here in the megafight maybe this is the largest fight in boxing but possibly this will become boring partner because Mayweather may just possibly run and run .
I'm sure they have been preparing for this in the camp of Pacquiao but to what extent can they stop the possible running of this Mayweather to avoid those power punches by -- by Manny partner ?
<no-speech>
you know partner very interesting the the mentioned by this former World Heavyweight Champion Mike Tyson in his blog right ?
what he said there in his blog that he believes this Manny Pacquiao will win over Mayweather because it does not right like too much calculated or studied scientifically that like the style of this Mayweather is he will win .
because in the previous fights of this Manny Pacquiao those who have defeated him right are those who attack and attack unlike Marquez isn't it ?
so there those that are like really but rather but rather if there is an opponent it has more fight that seems to shock our -- national fist but in this case of Floyd Mayweather who they say has movement that is already calculated very scientifically will not work to the likes of a Manny Pacquiao that even in any angle can hit a punch .
so it could be boring on the part of Mayweather I don't think that will happen in the part of our national fist .
because we really know that our national fist when he sees he does not really go near he really advances right ?
so I think that well of course well we can really see so May two but definitely it is also in also in disposition of our two fighters because the -- %incomplete
the released statement of the camp of Mayweather was that they are also preparing and there is said to be a new style that Mayweather will do so of course if there is something new it is always exciting right partner ?
okay .
I hope what he said will come true %incomplete
