but this photo said to be of John Regala spread on social media just this week .
that this time seems to be helplessly collapsed just outside a supermarket in Cavite .
faint and seemingly unconscious .
the famous actor is pitiful hopefully someone helps him .
John Regala had an attack in Zapote earlier .
oh my God save him .
how pitiful he's my idol is that true ?
<no-speech>
so just this Friday our team went to Zapote Bacoor Cavite to discover the truth .
and according to the vendors and barkers there it was really John Regala in the picture .
and he really hung out there .
often plays bingo .
he has been checked in in a nearby hotel for almost two months .
can John Regala always be seen here ?
always .
plays bingo .
no we always see him seated .
when I first saw him he was still fat but recently he had an attack it was long ago maybe two weeks already .
but now he's too thin .
he had on a blue jersey yesterday .
sometimes it's already noon when he's seated there .
our team got to know the man in the photo who helped John .
Toto .
he shares everything happened around afternoon just this Wednesday .
here here he was sitting here .
he was like that here .
<no-speech>
carrying his gambling money he noticed the mass of people who seemed to be crowding over something .
John Regala who collapsed .
when we let him drink water his face blushed a little it reddened .
I even joked idol we sill have a taping don't sleep .
he talked but in whisper and said yes .
after almost thirty minutes the actor gained consciousness .
there was an ambulance already on standby but John Regala declined to be brought to the hospital .
he felt better I said idol are you okay now ?
he was doing this I said I'll bring you to Saint Dominic he doesn't want to .
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
sir good afternoon .
hi good afternoon .
is it okay to interview you ?
yes it's okay .
John accepted the interview .
he confirmed that he collapsed .
oh .
this is you ?
yes that's me .
(()) it happened yesterday February fifteen when suddenly you there here here and then they brought me up here .
here .
yes there .
I was very dizzy there .
my head was spinning and my knees were shaking I can't move it .
he was supposed to go back to the hotel when he suddenly fainted .
I went down to buy from a convenient store .
yes .
it was very hot that noon -- that noon .
when I was about to return my head was suddenly spinning .
so I sat down for a while also because my knees were shaking suddenly lost I really passed out .
he cleared that he didn't have a heart attack or stroke like the hearsays .
I didn't have a stroke .
I didn't have a heart attack .
I'm strong .
well in fact I can still -- well what right ?
we're very strong .
we can still go out .
he suspects his sugar level dropped down .
because of his diabetes .
our difference that's diabetes .
of course there are medicines to prevent it .
uhm like his disease ?
in his spinal column he has arthritis yes and also gout .
he has a small in the heart but that's okay it can be cured .
and now that I learned that when I saw it the next day I reprimanded him .
why didn't you call me I could have went to you directly from -- from that work but he doesn't want me to worry .
at present his house is being renovated and painted that's why he's checked in at a hotel .
heat is extremely not allowed for me because I just came from the hospital that time .
but I really needed to rush the painting of the house .
of the many things he already went through in his movie-like life there's nothing more he can't take .
John Regala or John Paul Guido Boucher Scherrer was born in September nineteen sixty-five .
his parents have a blood of German and French .
being an actor is in his blood .
the only son of the former actor and actress Ruby Regala .
and Mel Francisco .
he's very helpful even if he already loses a centavo he'll give it .
just don't abuse any of his family or him because he'll really fight until death .
because his mom needed to work in Visayas John was left at Quezon .
at an early age he experienced cruelty or abuse from his relatives .
my childhood was rough right ?
I didn't grow up with my mom .
I didn't grow up with my dad .
I was left with a distant relative .
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
at an early stage of my life I already fought the world .
our relatives didn't treat me as a good relative that's why I experienced abuse .
<no-speech>
to be hit with a two by two that has a nail on the edge .
in three years I only tasted two kinds of food .
just oatmeal and porridge .
morning noon night they wanted to feed their leftovers more to the cat and dog .
than me I had the dog beside me while sleeping .
I was angry at the world before because everything seemed against me .
I'm jealous when I see a whole family .
<no-speech>
after his mother took him they lived in Marikina and to help with their expenses John grew up in the streets .
he became strategic .
just to have an allowance I'll be selling in the streets until twelve .
and then I'll say I'll come in .
sir yes sir .
he really dreamed to become a soldier that's why he entered as jungle fighter in Mindanao .
I trained for two years in jungle fighter when they were about to send me to Mindanao I said there's no money here I said I'll die and I'll be AWOL .
until he thought about being an extra in films .
I'm more attractive than this why are they in T_V .
I can be in T_V I said I'll try it .
I applied in Escolta how shameless all of them are there -- the producers in Escolta .
ah ah ah ah I hung out there .
I requested to the directors if you need an extra or a minor actor please try me .
I am the child of Ruby Regala sir .
that's how much I had confidence on myself .
that's how direct I was .
became a member of That's Entertainment in the nineteen eighties .
it was just fine with me if I had a starring role that was fine with me .
but I didn't star in everything because I will lose popularity here .
well it's hard to maintain when you're in the peak .
according to him he had everything before fame wealth .
I had a lot of money back then .
I didn't use a bank .
all my money were filed in the cabinet .
I looked like a hunchback back then .
why you ask ?
my jewelry were heavy .
all that had it and then my money just here in the pocket was always thick .
he was involved in some issues .
so since two thousand one he wasn't given any project anymore .
that's when his showbiz career started to go down .
I said how will I be in many films if I won't that's what I the drugs problems with my father even came along mhm .
he regretted all of that .
he decided to once again have faith in God .
at first I can't accept it it's hard to accept .
until I realized I can't do anything .
whatever way if God won't permit to it to happen still can't do anything .
so I said I'll just accept the truth that this is what happened to my destiny .
until I reached the rock-bottom of life .
even my relatives before they lend me one hundred pesos I get curse and insults first .
but when I had the means well I helped my relatives just like that .
at present the actor is busy with his environmental project .
couple of businesses and advocacy for the farmers of Nueva Ecija .
my advocacy there is to help the farmers .
because no one pays attention to the farmers .
he still wants to be back in showbiz and hopefully this will serve as a lesson to some the mistakes and vices he did .
meanwhile John didn't forget to thank the guy who helped him when he fainted .
we arranged for Toto and him to meet .
I thought no one loved me anymore no there are still a lot idol there's still a lot I thought people has already forgotten about me .
that's why sometimes I get depressed .
that hurt because I truly love my fans .
now I have proven that until now the love of man is still in me .
whenever I encounter something like that I will really help anybody .
yes is this correct sir right ?
yes to those living in Zapote a great many thanks to you for helping me right sir .
I have proven that you truly love me and that gives me encouragement .
for me to fight in the world .
don't worry when I return boom .
okay we will return .
I truly love you okay .
thank you all right .
