in order to alleviate the expected crowding of students in school the Department of Education is planning to broaden its alternative distance learning program .
news brought by Sherrie Ann Torres .
<no-speech>
a volume of more than two million students is expected this school year twenty twelve twenty thirteen said the Department of Education .
which is why severe congestion of students should be expected in public schools this coming school year in June .
the solution seen by DepEd is to expand the alternative distance learning program which is often taken by artists who want to study .
here one can study at home and the student only goes to school sometimes .
we want to improve this so that even children who -- who are below sixteen who are having difficulty in coming to class five days a week can now do it through modules .
umm .
ah can just go to class on those scheduled days .
umm .
let's say for an exam or for a group activity .
the program supposedly includes places with a high number of students young artists those with health problems those with not enough money to go to school regularly and those in rehabilitation centers .
through alternative delivery modes either through computer-based or when one takes home the module that he can just do at at um -- at home .
then he could just go there for let's say about a few days in a month .
those who are like thirteen-year-old Raymond are also the target of the program .
it was September last year when he stopped going to school when his mother passed away .
feeling that someone is helping in your studies .
<no-speech>
then sometimes Sir when (()) when brought to think sometimes Sir because I remember mother .
<no-speech>
so Sir like she is always in my -- thoughts .
this is also a good news for Genevieve who wants that she could make her sixteen year old child to finish studying .
the child has gone with a gang so he has not finished elementary until now .
he can avoid the -- example that he is here in the store with us .
when his gang arrives will invite him .
he cannot avoid not to go with along .
so his siblings will catch him up if his siblings continue their studies .
such as what I am Sir to him we are encouraging him that he is the eldest so he is a man .
like their father is gone he should help me and then to make his life better .
then to have an easier glimpse to the record of the students in the coming class opening each will have a student number .
here his permanent record will be seen whether it be public or private school .
avoiding technical malfunction in case of transferring to school .
the reminder also of the Department of Education to the teachers it is prohibited to deny those who will enroll whether they have something to pay for the contribution or none .
Sherrie Ann Torres .
