guest now is doctor Vic (()) .
Doctor that's why I invited you because it's important we discuss and make sure of it of course there's the field of livestock .
and you being a veteran you'll be able to infuse many things or additional information for the sake of our caretakers of animals .
Doctor for now a lot of problems is faced by our backyard raisers .
never mind the multi-nationals yes .
that's true Francis through helping our government agencies especially our National Livestock coordinator Assistant Secretary Dave meets especially our backyard raisers Francis on how to liven up their morale .
yes .
their confidence of taking care to earn .
there .
and the assurance -- the assurance Doctor because it's already October now November December December December %incomplete
yes .
we already know the assurance if we have enough -- enough supply of pig chicken cow in the market until the end of the year .
yes and let's ask that to Assistant Secretary Dave .
okay .
let's welcome our good assistant secretary Dave Catbagan with a good and serene morning .
a very good morning Assistant Secretary Catbagan .
good morning Francis .
good morning Doctor Nilo .
good morning .
you're right about our discussion on livestock this morning .
<no-speech>
our topic is very timely because it's already -ber months .
uh huh .
and this is there is a preparation the rise of the demands of the agricultural products especially that of course the pork and chicken .
uh huh -- you are right Francis we have been assuring to our public agriculture that the supply is sufficient supply for local supply of (()) agriculture chicken or pork meat or eggs in the coming Christmas in the coming months .
we have seen this in the growth of the livestock and poultry appointed by the Philippines (()) authority .
and you know in our group in the livestock group just say that many have expanded especially in broiler .
and those backyard piggery is coming back .
the backyard raisers .
%incomplete
that that (()) in fact this this first six months from January to June these two sub-sectors in agriculture you know Ka Francis that is actually four .
those sub-sector in crops uh huh where the sub corn sugar are there .
uh huh .
those sub-sectors for fisheries and our sub-sector the livestock and poultry .
in fact that two has risen to four to five percent this %incomplete
oh it rises .
in -- in terms of volume of production all right Ka Francis .
wow .
this this pork and then this poultry right for the first six months right that is how it rises and we have seen that this will continue to address the needs if there is a spike of the demand next month .
uh huh okay but the support is there of course the price is not too naughty .
<no-speech>
right that we have monitored in fact it softened .
the has softened as well the life price of the poultry and then the pork has somehow lowered a bit .
but it does not get really low -- they lose or the producers suffer losses .
we have many problems when it gets very low to benefit our consumers but our producers do not earn .
so it is at the exact price and we also monitor it .
there is a group in the agriculture marketing division that monitors the price .
in -- in the wet market to correct the price based on (()) of the price of life life hazards and poultry .
okay .
Assistant Secretary Dave those in the poultry sector are worried because there are news from the suppliers of soya that U_S soya are depleted .
so this is one of you are not happy when there are no more U_S soya .
the supply here to the Philippines lessened but our we increased the importation of other sources of protein .
so we should not be worried about the -- loss of U_S soya that is now the news in the industry ?
that's the news going around but when monitor the price in the previous years Doctor Nilo their production cost is not going to be really affected .
yes what's important is the continuous supply .
unfortunately for soya we are dependent outside .
yes .
<no-speech>
our producers have a mechanism when -- they reduce -- they reduce the proportion of soya in feeding .
it maybe -- that the depreciation on other substitute isn't as low .
just to somewhat lessen -- to lower a bit -- but I assure that we check that the market might stabilize in the future .
there Assistant Secretary Dave the achievement regarding the livestock is very nice because here in Tarlac it seems that it is -- pushing through and a triple A dressing plant for our poultry raisers are being built .
<no-speech>
yes that is correct .
our triple A that is being built in Tarlac from (()) actually is one of the first service facilities that our Department of Agriculture built and should be utilized by our small -- small livestock producers -- small poultry producers where they cannot have this .
of course we have many triple A dressing plants here but they are privately owned .
it's what we need now right .
because we cannot -- although we already export chicken even Halal chicken as far as Abu Dhabi .
of course Japan Japan has long been established poultry export two thousand five .
that hopefully in the future this export of poultry products can also be felt by the United Raisers Broiler Association .
not only the big ones actually Doc Nilo the reason why it was established is that it is for them yes yes and full time once it is finished it should be done within the before November we will inaugurate it .
there are just a few -- finishing touches in the facilities .
that's complete it has cold storage yes yes and hopefully with the established -- export markets in different countries small poultry producers can join too .
hopefully Assistant Secretary Dave our small cooperatives that raise chicken hopefully will not have limits ?
in dressing here in our triple A for the market's opening to other countries .
you are right Nilo .
it's for them actually which is why the (()) we already met with the art group so -- they will organize .
and let us include all those who wanted to be qualified to -- they will utilize yes they will maximize the use of the that triple a dressing plant in Pampan .
yes and because it is our perennial problem Francis yes all of our -- for the knowledge of our listeners .
because every December Francis the volume of meat explodes .
yes and sometimes when there is too much demand -- too much supply the demand is similar .
what happens Francis is they incur a loss our poor -- broiler raisers .
so this is perfect this -- previous project of our Department of Agriculture about poultry livestock .
and this is one of the -- I think this will really ease the problems of volume in December .
that is correct .
that is right Francis doc -- Doc Nilo .
okay now that is for chicken ?
how are the what we consider advancements still Assistant Secretary Catbagan of our triple A abattoirs and this is really needed today because we are facing serious competition in the field of preparation slaughter until transport of our agricultural commodities .
how is our abattoir ?
that is correct Francis .
when we began the one in Tarlac which is now close to completion we also had a a project .
it will already be started because it's already been bid yes in Tanauan Rosas that -- that was discussed to be placed there in Tanauan to be posted by the mayor of Tanauan .
yes .
it will be started already .
it is called triple A slaughterhouse for pigs .
beautiful .
<no-speech>
eye -- to respond to the needs of backyard agriculture users especially there in Southern Tagalog where the concentration of raising pigs is small that yes (()) owners or backyard are there .
yes .
wow ah this is continuing Francis already continuing .
I think Assistant Secretary Dave will set next the (()) the cow livestock Francis because in the towns here in the northern parts right yes .
higher parts of our -- our lands many raise cows Francis .
<no-speech>
that is correct Doc Nilo right ?
we do not -- abandon the those backyard fattening cattle fattening in fact ongoing is our distribution of -- proper genetics to our farmers .
we have a program %incomplete
