Veneracion .
Jun ?
Jessica the first anniversary of the Mamasapano is being held here sincerely .
some relatives of the S_A_F forty have come to the place of encounter to offer prayers .
<no-speech>
no cameras no cameras they call this Aray-ab .
a ritual from Cordillera to bring home the souls of the victims to Barangay Tukanlipao in Mamasapano Maguindanao .
where many of the S_A_F forty were killed the Aray-ab was held .
families of some S_A_F forty that arrived are hoping that the souls of their loved ones are at peace already .
meanwhile in Camp Crame President Noynoy Aquino said that the only thing that can make them and the families they left at peace is justice .
you can expect together with the guarantee of support that will be given to the families of S_A_F forty four .
are efforts to attain justice is thorough .
<no-speech>
but one year has already passed not even one has been filed with a case .
the investigation of Department of Justice has already been submitted for resolution .
in their first recommendation twenty-six members of Moro Islamic Liberation Front or M_I_L_F should be sued .
twelve members of the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters of B_I_L_F and fifty-two members of private armed group .
in the report of senate the high ranking government officials including the president also have responsibilities .
and they will open the investigation this Sunday once again .
while the process is rolling mourning goes on .
the wife of Police Chief Inspector Ryan Pabalinas Erica didn't come to Crame .
they already received the benefits including the scholarship of their children .
but the wound is still not healing .
that's right .
yes I (()) for my child I hope this can be cleared or we can be given justice .
the relative of P_O Three Chum Agabon in Iligan is still waiting for the promise of the government to finance the operation of Agabon's child who is sick .
Agabon's widow is already planning to work overseas and leave the children first just to provide for them .
whoever just help hand in hand .
mm .
those who are accountable should really take account in the system not just if they don't have any offense .
the mother of P_O Two Romeo Senin is still thinking that her son is just in Zamboanga up until now .
<foreign> and will just come home one day .
according to the Philippine National Police or P_N_P there are groups that told the relatives of S_A_F forty-four to not attend the commemoration in Crame .
our commanders have accounts .
there were really efforts from some groups to prevent the families of our S_A_F forty-four to come over in .
P_Noy awarded the highest recognition the Medal of Valor to the line of uniformed Senior Inspector Gednat Tabdi and P_O Two Romeo Cempron .
Cempron is the lead gunner of the fifty-fifth special action company .
the one who served as cover and was targeted by the enemies .
when he used up the bullets and had no arms he blocked the bullets with his body to save his comrades .
and Tabdi led the eighty-fourth S_A_C that fulfilled the mission to catch Marwan .
wounded tired and thirsty he still efficiently commanded the group to counter the force of the opponents regardless of their disadvantage in count .
<no-speech>
the families of Tabdi and Cempron will receive twenty thousand monthly life-long aside from the pension .
their children will also have scholarships until college .
I give many thanks to the Lord that my heart is even though it's dead it's still here seems like it's still alive .
thank you God the one who the forty-four S_A_F .
I hope they find justice .
<no-speech>
medal of heroism was awarded to the remaining forty-two S_A_F .
as well as with the five S_A_F commandos who survived .
this also has benefits .
together with the recollection of S_A_F M_I_L_F also offered prayers to the souls of their comrades who were killed in the encounter .
the help of course attack of ancestry gave us help .
not just for the (()) also the families of the (()) we also gave help but it's never enough .
the local government of Mamasapano has an appeal for the five civilians that were killed in the combat .
well it is only saddening because only the S_A_F is being noticed .
I'm not saying they should not pay attention but I hope they include the civilians .
even the fighters of M_I_L_F they didn't want the encounter that happened .
one year has passed but this bridge that has been the symbol of the bloody encounter here in the town of Mamasapano remains up .
this is no longer being used but the local government plans to restore it for this to be a reminder to all about the bloody history that could have been prevented .
many has changed in Mamasapano .
the road to Tukanalipao is now concrete and wide .
rescue and reinforcement unit can easily pass in case of disasters .
the wooden bridge has also been replaced .
there are irrigation projects .
there are new classrooms .
all of these are programs they have not experienced in the past before the tragedy happened .
like the signal is this needs to happen for them to implement the previous projects here .
in coordination with the local government units here the projects are concentrated mm so that's part of the healing process .
(()) .
(()) .
Jessica it cannot really be denied that the change in Mamasapano has been somehow big one year since the bloody encounter happened so the local officials are appealing as well as those residents that hopefully they will not be forgotten especially the following years Jessica .
Vene those residents in Mamasapano are they confident that this encounter that has happened will not be repeated ?
do they have more peace of mind one year after it happened and we have seen there are projects finally made for them .
<no-speech>
you know Jessica I had arrived here last one day after that Mamasapano encounter happened and I came back around two or three weeks after the military offensive against the B_I_F_F started and I have really seen the difference .
that that that is different -- if you are able to talk those people there when they become secured .
and the report also of the Armed Forces of the Philippines Jessica is they have not seen or monitored sightings of the armed groups here in their area of Mamasapano so they said based on their observation and in their security analysis is that Mamasapano has really changed a lot not only about the projects on progress even in the aspect of security Jessica .
mm the livelihood of our fellowmen there which has been disrupted for such as long time .
because we are seeing in the video itself its farmlands could have been beautiful right ?
flat lands then there is a river the soil is fertile .
but that was disrupted after the encounter because it has been long time since there are many people living in the evacuation sites .
now is it back to the you know the natural grind of the lives of our countrymen there ?
<no-speech>
aah you are right there Jessica that those farmers here because mostly those who are here in the area of Mamasapano especially here in barangay Tukanalipao are farmers Jessica .
if you can remember the that bridge over there which had become a symbol of the bloody encounter in Mamasapano that wooden bridge .
the the bridge constructed there now which is only made out of wood Jessica that that is made as a bridge of the farmers to cross from the cornfield over there .
that cornfield over there where most of the members of the SAF forty-four are pinned down and the farmers are crossing the wooden bridge now to send their harvest to the villages .
now is the video you are watching that bridge has already been replaced .
that is not being used now .
this bridge here is crossed by the residents crossed by the farmers .
this this wood has been done with a stronger wood metal that our farmers cross there in the town of Mamasapano Jessica mm I have seen there are relatives who went there of those who have died right ?
because we have been seeing that there has been an effort by the government to really address all their concerns now that two medals of valor no less were given there to some of the SAF forty-four so that is the highest honor right ?
then the government also is always saying to address all they have promised to the relatives of these SAF forty-four .
but we are seeing that -- still in fury the anger what is the how would you describe that emotion ?
is it still because of the manner of death of those their loved ones Jun even if one year has passed still seems to be very difficult for them .
<no-speech>
of course there Jessica number one is their search for justice and second is they still can't overcome the thinking the feeling of being neglected at the very moment when they really needed help .
that is maybe where the source of the grudges of these families of the fallen members of SAF forty-four comes from although the needs they are asking are being addressed already .
our government is addressing not only those SAF forty-four right but also those civilians who are implicated here those five civilians killed here in the encounter are the local government of Mamasapano said the government is addressing their concerns their needs .
but of course but this is difficult to forget Jessica huh .
only one year has passed since this happened so they are still in the phase that they cannot still accept the whole incident because they feel that something could have been done to save their loved ones Jessica mm because we heard all the details there on who many hearings are conducted what in the Senate even in the Lower House .
but will you say that it's that feeling that they are abandoned and -- just left there to die those SAF forty fourth that -- that -- that is the most difficult to get over by those relatives .
<no-speech>
anyone perhaps Jessica who will be placed in this situation in that situation and you feel there is something that should still be done has something that can still be done the government can still have something to offer .
their counterparts from other armed services can still have something to offer .
oh you will really think that hopefully if the deaths could not have been that numerous at least the number of casualties were minimized right .
but of course on the other hand their counterparts have been saying I'm referring to the Armed Forces of the Philippines so on that moment they are really groping in the dark .
they do not know how to address the situation .
they do not know how they are going to offer to offer help there to their comrades who are pinned down there in the cornfields .
there in barangay Tukanalipao Mamasapano Jessica .
thank you very much Jun Veneracion .
<no-speech>
