gimmicky refreshments try a drink with bacon or drinks in unusual containers .
here is the report .
<no-speech>
gimmicky refreshments are what we'll tell you about this morning .
a more colorful life is brought by this cafe in Metrowalk because of their new gimmick .
because their cafe's latte art has leveled up .
the various designs of their rainbow latte art are really amusing .
we are the very first to bring rainbow latte in the Philippines .
a lot of other countries are doing it as well like (()) Australia like Abu Dhabi Dubai .
eureka it is also in this cafe that healthy juice drinks in bulb-shaped cups can be enjoyed .
they call it Cheers Quenchers .
for this we put chia seeds for a -- so we would be different .
because those pearls those on Zagu which are mixed into a drink became a trend before .
now we're adding a different twist on it that's why we're putting chia seeds .
friends Eyo Steph and Yohan like to go to the cafe during their break time .
but today they will try a refreshment that will not just quench their thirst but also satisfy their curiosity .
at this cafe in Maginhawa their drinks are placed in Erlenmeyer flasks .
we have a sixteen-ounce and twenty-two-ounce .
the sixteen ounce is one hundred twenty then the twenty-two ounce is one hundred fifty .
the Erlenmeyer flask is a laboratory equipment that was made by a German chemist Emil Erlenmeyer in the eighteen sixties .
the Erlenmeyer flask is a triangular flask that is basically used as a container for .
<no-speech>
liquid solutions .
it can be -- it can also be used as a reaction vessel to observe a chemical reaction as it happens .
meanwhile bacon which is the star at breakfast is not just a viand now .
because at this restaurant in Marikina their drinks have real bacon ?
what you heard is right My Beloved a blend of sweetness and saltiness is savored in this promotional drink .
since we are a smoke house we specialize in smoking meats and barbecue .
the first thing we thought of is why not incorporate our specialty into one of our drinks .
so we came up with an idea that our homemade bacon -- because we -- we make our own bacon no we smoke our own bacon .
so we -- we blend it with our homemade ice cream and then top it up with maple syrup .
the s'mores drink that can be bought here is also a winner .
not flavoring but mixed with real s'mores .
these drinks are not just for quenching thirst different gimmicks were done for a drinking experience that really wows .
