in our continued exploration to the real life of beauty queen turned T_V host and actress Miriam Quiambao she toured me in her home .
and your house is beautiful .
from the outside I saw that why is it like Greek the theme of the house ?
actually this is the house of my husband and his late wife built two years ago .
so we just returned here because I also liked the house then we renovated it according to my fate .
was there a lot that changed in this house ?
we expanded the living room the furniture are newly arranged and we tiled the bathroom .
where is Miriam's touch here in this house ?
this furniture of mine here .
where are these from Miriam ?
ah these came from my old condo .
this is from my trip in Vietnam back back when we went there with Paolo Bediones of extra-extra to Vietnam .
souvenir are those your souvenirs right ?
after taking home the honor from Miss Universe Miriam Quiambao became in demand .
gosh apologies sir for I have just arrived now because %incomplete
but aside from a showbiz career also colorful and loud was her love life .
this is what's called as one program that is totally for the masses .
it can be remembered she was linked before to his co-host in Extra Challenge Paolo Bediones .
their working relationship is good .
there were times like they were linked romantically but nothing seems nothing .
one controversial question .
did you and Paolo Bediones become a couple ?
no .
no .
because during that time he has always he has a girlfriend .
he did not attempt to court -- courted ?
not too .
haven't too ?
making himself felt but he has a girlfriend .
one that adds a color to Miriam's love life is when she decided before to leave her show business career to marry her Italian boyfriend Claudio Rondinelli year two thousand four .
when she got offered all those like show business kind of jobs she accepted worked hard but it was not that really where her heart is .
she has always wanted to have a family .
do you know that ?
after getting married Miriam also decided to leave the Philippines and live in Hong Kong with Claudio .
<no-speech>
Miriam had shown her married life to me before in the program Filipino Abroad .
I was actually happy in my first year but we were having problems on our second year of marriage .
then even how much money my husband showers on me I could still not be happy .
something is always lacking .
that time specifically in Hong Kong there has been that already ?
yes there is already .
and then parting ways has it been difficult has it been easy ?
that was our mutual agreement to separate because he was beginning to feel in loved with another girl and during that time I was already being invited back .
I also received a call from G_M_A inviting me to be a part of Filipino Meets World .
year two thousand seven Miriam returned to the country .
she appeared again in various programs of G_M_A Network .
but Miriam's confession to me of these moment she almost wanted to commit suicide for her many problems in life .
when the camera turns off within me it's like that again I am depressed .
I cannot sleep at night .
then like like my aura was to dark then a lot says .
what were you looking before do you think you know ?
peace of mind .
because I was just separated and I even remember I was praying .
Lord I have no reason to live because I do not have a future anymore .
I do not know where I am going .
just take me Lord .
