good news are the increased PhilHealth coverage and free tuition in state universities and colleges but not everyone can benefit from the free tuition .
Tina Panganiban-Perez reports .
around twenty thousand .
<no-speech>
her mother abroad did everything for Vea's enrollment in U_P which is why she is happy about the news that tuition in state universities and colleges or S_U_C will be free because of the eight point three billion peso budget for them that the congress gave to the Commission on Higher Education .
I experienced taking a loan before so if now if there will be free tuition it is really less hassle especially for my mom who goes abroad .
but before people like Veia celebrate there is a clarification by senator Ralph Recto .
only beneficiaries of the bridging program for the Filipino program or those coming from the poorest families can avail of the free tuition .
because there were initial reports saying that all students of S_U_C will be exempt issue surfaced about the possibility of transfers from private schools and if eight billion peso will be enough to everyone who wishes to be exempted .
according to C_H_E_D the guidelines will still be discussed which will include the establishing who will be admitted to enroll at S_U_C .
will there be an exam and will it not be disadvantageous to many compared to those with advanced basic education in which the majority are rich ?
there are existing socialized tuition fee schemes now right ?
maybe those are being looked at making one a benchmark right ?
because there are others capable of paying .
it is unsure whether this will be repeated in the year twenty eighteen because the budget was taken from the lump sum initially intended by the chamber for A_R_M_M .
this was opposed in the bicameral conference committee because this was a lump sum or it was unclear what was the actual expenditure which is why it was transferred to CHED .
if you look at the budget books you will not really see because the fourth allocations are inserted and like crafty hidden .
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
except if a law will be passed ordering allotment of funds that it is not like the universal health care of the country or the health expenses of the poor which will surely be funded partly by the collection of taxes from cigarettes and alcohol because that is ordered by the sin tax law .
D_O_H boasts that all the poor even without Philhealth card are automatically get exemption in hospital billing and other fees enjoyed by PhilHealth members .
they will become automatic members afterwards .
the poor will also get free medicine because of the additional funding approved by the congress and because of the funds of PAGCOR .
it was previously ordered by the president that part of the funds of %incomplete
