<no-speech>
the very first double canonization in the history of Catholic church will be held this Sunday .
this is the conferment and recognition as saint of Pope John the twenty-third and John Paul the second .
let's go back to the history of the two Saint Popes known because of their different personalities .
one being humble and shy priest while the other is compared to a rock star because of his popularity .
<no-speech>
two admired names in our church will be bestowed a recognition as the new Saint of the millennium .
Pope John the twenty-third and the Pope Saint that is very close to the hearts of Filipinos Pope John Paul the second .
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
that's why Miss Minda is very busy with the preparation of the flower offering for the special celebration this upcoming week .
for me it's a really special day .
yes .
because now I'll be able to .
<no-speech>
Pope Saint will be canonized to be a saint .
<no-speech>
Miss Minda witnessed Pope John the twenty-third that became Pope Saint of the Catholic Church last nineteen fifty-eight until nineteen sixty-three .
but like many Filipinos the Pope Saint who served from nineteen seventy-eight until two thousand and five was closer to their hearts because of his visit in the country Pope Jon Paul the second .
I remember when he visited here in the Philippines I was in Parañaque in front of Redemptorists Church .
he passed by .
he was from the airport .
yes there were many people who waved at him back then .
yes I was one of the many people there who braved the crowds just to see him .
it was really fun .
<no-speech>
the leadership of Pope John the twenty-third and John Paul the second in the throne of the holy sea undeniably made a mark on many Catholics .
this was what was explained to us by Father Ian Rosal of Saint Peter's Parish in Quezon City .
the church loved Pope John Paul the second and John the twenty-third because they made the church closer to the people .
John the twenty-third started the second Vatican council wherein he insisted for the people to understand what and who is the church and John Paul the second the reason why he was close to the people is because he made himself closer to the people because he started World Youth Day .
he tried to make Christ closer especially to the youth so they will get to know and love Christ completely .
even if Pope John the twenty-third was only in service for five years he was known for his advocacy and nicknamed the Good Pope .
John the twenty-third was called the Good Pope because first of all his desire to have peace in the whole world .
he wanted to face the people as a person and not as the Pope .
born as Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli .
Pope John the twenty-third was the eldest son from thirteen siblings .
he grew up in a poor family in Lombardi that is now part of Sotto il Monte in Italy whose livelihood was called sharecroppers or sharecroppers only .
so he was able to easily share to many poor Catholics the word of God .
when he was Pope what he really wanted to happen is for there to be changes in our church so it was the opening of the doors of the Church because he wanted to project an image that the Church is a happy Church .
<foreign><foreign> .
meanwhile Pope John Paul the second who is also recognized more with the nickname John Paul The Great served as the father of the Catholic Church for almost two decades .
one of the accomplishments done by Pope John Paul the Second is he wanted who is God and who is man in front of God to be understood .
because of him more people got to know who is God especially the youth .
he was baptized with the name Karl Joseph Wojtyla .
Pope John Paul the second was the youngest of three siblings .
his family at Wadowice in Poland is considered as middle class .
his experience with the Nazi at the time of Holocaust strengthened the heart and faith of the first designated Pope Saint who isn't an Italian in three hundred years of history of Vatican .
he became popular because he knew how to use mass media and social media and his personality is really charismatic that's why when he came to our country just by seeing him people are already shouting .
without saying anything it seems people love him very much already .
he just raised his baton and all the people were already shouting .
<no-speech>
that is why everyone especially the netizens are awaiting the canonization this Sunday .
the reactions online is very active about how Blessed John the twenty-third is conservative and how Blessed John Paul the second is radical which may bond the different points of view of Catholics all over the world .
<no-speech>
