well already gone .
that number four .
number four actively defend life the institution of marriage and the family .
that actually contentious -- issue now that the following of bishops for the on the family last October two thousand fourteen and then also in the coming October which is larger more participation from the Bishop's Clergy and there are also lay representatives .
that is what is being focused on the institution of the -- the family and then that .
there in the U_S every year they have a March For Life they celebrate the supreme court decision I think it's the raw versus weight where it was allowed I'm not so familiar with it with abortion so there there is so much that the youth should focus on because -- the enemy of morality and doctrines today is the YOLO mentality .
yes where I only live now .
you only live once YOLO was used but I only learned from Gerard Garcia what it what it means ?
yes -- -- just last year .
but you know I didn't learn of it right away yes what does YOLO mean (()) you only live once mentality especially of the youth .
so they get lost in different things .
very fleeting very temporary very temporal are the relationships .
very experimental experimental like they say cohabitation like that right ?
so and then premarital sex like that .
so there it's like what is being said is the family is sacred when -- when considered that is what is said to us in sociology or anthropology that it's the basic unit of society that's sociology .
ah sociology yes .
it's the nucleus of society the family .
and with the church it is also the domestic church .
that is the first church the mother the father and the really and like the foundation of the church inside the home that is what the child will follow and the model of the first domestic church is the holy family yeah Parish Kamias our fiesta on February eight so annoying that it was included .
hay geez next is a good one .
this I like this .
promote a culture of respect for women .
there .
yay .
because the Pope noticed that in U_S_T women participation is low he said .
but what is saddening there is that he said to show the next Pope -- when the next Pope comes so that means he will no longer return .
because isn't it -- what others are lobbying like they are pushing for the International Eucharistic Congress .
on twenty sixteen twenty sixteen January two -- twenty sixteen that is the original schedule of Pope Francis here .
but because of Yolanda and even before that he was early so he said when -- when the next Pope arrives he might go here but not to U_S_T anymore because he is in Cebu .
there are more women but it is slightly actually -- you know when the Pope speaks he's like a president right because we anticipate it because maybe that is a policy statement like that yes .
there are others who just used it especially the women's group within the Catholic church that are not -- there are those not within the Catholic church that one is pushing for women's ordination because the bible did not say that a priest is yes yes male only right .
there are others within the Catholic church the greater participation of women that Pope Francis is doing that is what is being said that he is forming a he is reorganizing the Vatican structure and there will be a congregation for the Leyte and the family and what will head that couple and and he is appointing for the first time a woman as head I forgot but involvement like that .
like that Pope Francis is really recognizing the contribution because in the church a woman is considered a nun nun -- mother butler (()) C_W_L but this is involvement really .
like that didn't he say it there in U_S_T itself there women have much to tell us in today's society .
there .
sometimes we are too masculine and we don't allow enough space to women but women can see things from a different angle to us with a different eye .
women are able post questions women are unable to understand .
look out for this fact she is the only one who has put a question for which there is no answer Glistle May right ?
she couldn't put it into words but express it with tears .
yes because it's like women and men are different like they look at the same thing but the view of the woman is different the view of the man is different .
right just with directions -- when you are lost a man will not ask a woman will be the one to ask -- yes that is true will find a way .
yes so for me when we get lost I tell my crew to ask but they don't want to ask .
it's up to you .
then in the end I am correct because -- when I was in the field -- because of course right -- you ask with respect when others play a joke on you brother can I ask a question ?
what if the answer someone answered us no like that but it's just a joke right ?
that is probably what the uh don't like especially the uh our assistant cameramen to our pilots when they are answered that way they will get angry .
so next .
number six .
make good use of the information available to me and make sure it bears good fruit .
that is number twenty-four .
what does number twenty-four say in number twenty-four read that .
there go it's your turn .
let's skip that he said real love is about loving and letting yourself be love .
it's harder to let yourself to let yourself be love than to love .
that is why it is difficult to come to the perfect love of God .
we can love him but we must let ourselves be loved .
it's long wait yes by him .
ah this .
there below .
ah that's the one below .
mm .
actually it covers many things already but he said let us not have a computer psychology that makes us think we know it all .
all answers on computers of course there are answers just google there will be an answer but no surprises right ?
it's like he said let us use our know how so that it will bear fruit because right others are really very bookish .
and then it'll lead to nothing .
also at the internet age aren't there many things available that seems like I guess if you won't use what you read and what you hear in a good way you won't be productive so put it to good use that's what he's saying right ?
information will just be information if you won't use it right .
I remember the movie Angels and Demons their gut particle the antimatter .
their intention is to make that their source energy .
and then %incomplete
at least -- because someone said I think Camerlengo Yuan McGregory said that it will defy religion faith something like that seems like they're not even considering because you just want to be too scientific about it .
but as what the doctor said the physicist for example that research is for great use it will benefit many .
yes .
perfect morning is back with Trisha Roque .
and Joey Villarama and we're still talking about the -- this is the post Pope Francis or papal visit what can we do or what should we do what did we learn our takeaways after the visit of Pope Francis in the country this is from the official website Papal visit P_H and we're at number seven think well feel well and do well .
that can be a slogan of what health drink or was that gym ?
what's it called he said that to U_S_T right ?
yes he said think well feel well do well .
actually if you notice it from Jesuits we noticed from the Jesuits before when they give an advise they always give it in three points Pope Francis is also like that there's number one number two number three .
this is also his he said three prompts right ?
you should do this altogether because if this is connected to number six you're just thinking like a cerebral machine .
if you're just feeling and just pure emotion your judgment might be clouded because it's pure emotion .
and you should combine thinking and doing and then you apply it .
right .
there .
I cannot find the quote this -- this -- this is number twenty-three .
for this the gospel offers us a serene way forward using the three languages of the mind heart and hands and to use them in harmony .
what you think you must feel and put into effect .
your information comes down to your heart and you put it into practice harmoniously .
what you think you feel and you do .
feel what you think and feel what you do .
do what you think and what you feel .
the three languages to think to feel to do all and all in harmony that's it .
so those three should coordinate with each other .
next is this let the tears fall because you know many people feel like sign of weakness that is correct Cindy papal visit dot P_H yes those are the -- because there are people who feel that crying is a sign of weakness .
so as much as possible they avoid crying like uh they don't want to show emotion weakness like that because it is a weakness mm .
yes .
but like Pope Francis said there are things that that you will only feel you will really feel when you cry it out .
and let us return to your being a child actress aren't there scenes where you don't need to speak ?
earlier we talked about the eye but like that it was delivered via tears .
cry .
can you cry right now ?
I don't want .
ah can I just ask -- segwaying a lot if there is a crying scene were you motivated by does the director tell you or is there something you draw out from ?
no when I was young I was always threatened that your mother will leave you she will go already like that I will cry already when is that said before the scene starts .
three two one action .
yes before -- before a take that will be said you are a bad girl you will be left by so you need to think like that .
yes you know that is verbal abuse .
actually it really uh on children true right because it's like the child is being tortured there are disclaimers on kiddie shows today right that in compliance with DOLE like that --like that but there apparently that's abuse .
next allow God to surprise you that's also included in the quote of uh earlier there in the -- in to weep -- in information yes God is a God of surprise because He loved us first or first loved us .
that is true because -- there is a song with the passage in the bible that's like what is man that you are mindful of him that I am just like an ant you don't need me God doesn't need us right ?
it's like he made us and then he first loved us right .
so it's like a debt it's like the least we can do is return the love the -- and be good mm that's it .
God awaits us to surprise us actually Pope Francis was surprised too because he was elected Pope back then God reveals Himself through surprises right .
that's it when it was given as a surprise to you by -- by God it happened in your life so it means God has a message for you and he revealed himself through that .
saw a pin there is a pin joke there ha ha ha that's the last .
number ten allow myself to be loved .
ah that's also the the -- included with the computers real love is about loving and letting yourself be loved .
it's harder to let yourself be love than to love .
there that is why it is so difficult to come to the perfect love of God .
so allow God and others to love to have this full experience of God .
doesn't it seem very easy if if you will read it it's like it's really -- let's stick this to our cubicles it seems too simple .
yes not the -- the very cerebral teachings right ?
it's very basic that -- you will just apply in your life yes but the -- the the challenge is how you will apply it to your life .
yes .
right sometimes we're like -- not -- not just sometimes often we forget doing application of good works yes right ?
the challenge really yes that's a challenge many here maybe the one to ten -- just maybe in order for us to be conservative at least one number the number two dream big for my family .
I feel like people are able to do that -- that -- that famous defense lawyer who posted on -- that he doesn't participate in activities .
yes .
like that but he's there together with his family watching .
he said it doesn't make me less of a Catholic because he established his family just like that without you knowing it others here do it .
your effort in -- just those that you can't do for me number three is a real effort .
yes .
reach out to the needy the homeless and the abused .
I am saying that even that is a corporal work of mercy .
because people are somewhat cynical right ?
people asked that the one with the Lord where he measured the sheep and the goats .
-- when did we see you naked hungry thirsty in prison isn't it back that -- the one with the least of my brethren like brothers and sisters .
so there what's really difficult is we have contact lenses that immediately judge .
