more than seventy-seven years after the world war two it seems almost forgotten the service and heroism of the war veterans .
seems like many do not know why the annual celebration of the day of valor .
live from Quezon city with a report is Dano Tingcungco Dano ?
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
Jessica today the whole country celebrates the day of valor but whose memory are we celebrating today ?
and what is the role of the day of courage in our present society ?
<no-speech>
April nine nineteen forty two marked the start of one of the darkest chapters in our history the Bataan death march .
after the Japanese invaded Bataan the country's last fortress at the start of the second World War the surrender of no less than seventy -- six thousand Filipino and American soldiers .
they were forced to walk no less than one hundred and forty kilometers from Pilar Bataan to Capas Tarlac .
but the term death march is a poor illustration of what they went through .
out of seventy six thousand only fifty four only fifty four thousand were able to make it .
so the people on the streets who were helping were beaten or shot or reprimanded .
once they arrived at Capas Tarlac they rode this box car going to Camp O'Donnel .
but because of its oven-like conditions due to the heat of the weather many did not reach the camp alive .
at the end of the war we reclaimed our independence .
at the monument of Mount Samat in Bataan President Noynoy Aquin led the commemoration .
it was also here at Mount Samat that Kazuhide Ishikawa apologized once more I wish to express our heartfelt apologies and deep sense of remorse for all who suffered during those faithful days .
<no-speech>
we all remember and never forget what happened here .
these monuments in Capas also serve as a reminder to the Death March Shrine where the story of what they went through at Capas National Shrine is engraved where each name is engraved .
this (()) has three converging points which symbolize the Filipinos Americans and Japanese who have learned from the mistakes of the past using history as a bridge to continue a lasting peace .
for those who visited today no celebration can heal the wounds of the past .
the American father of the Filipino U_S military serviceman Clark Kellog is one of those who survived the death march .
despite how many decades have passed until his father passed away in two thousand five the wounds remain fresh .
he was consulting the -- the Veterans Administration Masteral (()) he talks sometimes he remembers it .
<no-speech>
he want to commit suicidal because he can't stand the pain .
tourists sometimes go to the memorial getting photographs along with remembering the stories of heroism .
but in the Death March Shrine with a distance of over seven kilometers visitors are fewer .
and like the vandalism we saw the memory of the death march which is kind of far from the memory of some .
of course that is important that is our just like um well our richest how it started as to how did our Filipinos die .
this Day of Bravery some veterans inevitably reminisced their suffering .
the most thoughtful is hungry .
no eating for several days then the Japanese even points to us -- the canes of the Japanese .
it is a social obligation without any real reason .
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
and Jessica just like what we mentioned earlier in our uh report right uh tomorrow morning recollection program will be conducted at Capas Memorial Shrine in Capas Tarlac .
uh huh let us just repeat Dano right seventy four thousand is the uh number of the Filipino and American soldiers who -- who were included in the death march from Bataan to Tarlac and in that number uh only fifty six thousand lived which means twenty eight thousand people died in that death march .
<no-speech>
correct Jessica and what is being said to us not only by Professor uh Jimuel Naval but also the kindred and the survivors themselves of this death march we talked with uh the sheer number of those uh who died who risked their lives in this death march is a uh something that should not be forgotten even this uh present generation because it has many lessons that can teach us not only in our history but also to us Filipinos like what Professor Naval has told us right there is actually in us in our Filipino descent that there is an ability and willingness to risk our lives without doubt and without second thoughts Jessica .
uhm you know I hope someone will make a film so that the present generation can see the heroism of our fellow countrymen .
why is it in Hollywood right their film Unbroken of -- that was directed by Angelina Jolie touches the heart .
but that was only a story of one person while here twenty eight thousand Filipinos and Americans died in the death march and there were also many who survived huh .
what they uh did to live is also really admirable .
thank you so much to you .
