T398 Tucta now invents new tactics to compete for employers Kigoma/Kahama organization of independent workers union of Tanzania (Tucta) has asked the Government to put in place laws to revoke registrations of employers who prevent their employees from joining that organization for the fear of being prompted for the interest of those workers. organizer for this year's Labor Day Celebration (First May), Mussa Mhagama recently said that there are organizations of big companies such as the cotton plucking, oil processing, industries, dispensaries and health facilities whose employees are not coming out to join the organization. "let me request leaders of workers unions to get into those areas to register workers, and an employer who will refuse, Government to intervene including revoking the registration for conducting his activities," said Mhagama. the ruling Secretary Shinyanga Province, Albert Msovela said the Government will not hesitate to take action to an employer who shall be identified to be preventing his employees from not joining the union. he also warned that, an action will be taken to an employer who shall be identified to have sacked an employee who had joined those unions, "I am ordering all district leaders in Shinyanga Province to ensure that all employers in private sector are giving their employees freedom of joining independent workers union, which are better foundation of defending their interest," said Msovela. at the same time, the Head of Kigoma Province, Emmanuel Maganga required citizens to become ambassadors of denying and rebuking corruption. "corruption is a big enemy, but the giver of bribe and the recipient are all wrong. citizens are the biggest institution of fighting corruption, help the Government to arrest those who are involved with those illegal acts," said Maganga.
T399 lady in -- in -- in your skills and the many years you have lived you thing at the work place men and women are given equal salary if the work is the same ? it depends on education . indeed we say people have same education . how same education ? yeah . <no-speech> if you have equal education (()) their salaries should the same . but if the woman has little education and the man has high education the woman with little education gets a bigger salary than the man . therefore a male system a male system is not applicable at the work place ? I can agree with -- with the lady there . <no-speech> like his explanations . mm . <no-speech> it can be the same . I now agree with her opinion (()) . I was present and it depends with -- with the posts of (()) one works depending on -- on his level of education even the salary depends on education . and if for example maybe that work is not related to education for instance ? it's just the ability of the work itself maybe (()) -- is it possible that the salary is the same ? the salary that I understand can be the same is only in the government sector but many times private companies have very varied systems including that of gender . eh it should be there . a man having a lot of cash is highly paid for . it is possible a man to be paid more cash than a woman or a woman to be paid more cash than a man . private companies are like that because everyone going to the company goes with . <no-speech> to personally ask for a job . you see it therefore depends on the agreement between him and his boss how much he is paid . brother here let the student speak . he cannot be the same it depends on the actual work environment and different departments and also at -- you'll find a woman pays a man salary at that same office because already the woman (()) to consider positions there is the managing director maybe in government . I don't know you consider maybe similar posts between the man and the woman is there the male system in payment ? that a woman is paid less while a man more . <no-speech> the government -- the government first I can guarantee they are paid equally according to -- like the job and (()) in governments it is all the same but in the private sector you find a particular job a man being paid more while a woman less or a woman (()) see other areas women maybe are biased . it depends because there are even other sectors in government where both can be having similar education qualifications and same job but paid different salaries . a man more or a woman ? eh a woman or man should be paid differently . what is the criterion for this difference ? its difference is on how you were enrolled to work . maybe someone was recruited in February another recruited in May despite that the work they are doing is the same and their educational level is the same they are paid different salaries . the law of -- of employment they refer to or labor laws of fourteen years helps and has a department that ensures that there is equal fairness in payment for work done between a man and a woman . that is what the law stipulates . but you try to consider how it will be in real life . but isn't the man the provider I see this law a father like myself as the father I'm going to feed the family you the wife becomes dependent then why should we be paid the same ? for now I don't think if there is a woman dependent every woman is now concerned about for herself . at the moment there are people who have certain jobs that they do both women and men but (()) it's the man who is more aggressive than the woman . therefore it is mandatory that he should be paid more hence a man must be paid more . and if we are doing security work we both camp at the gate equally . how will the salary be in that case who should be paid more ? that is why I'm telling you that jobs are different therefore there are other sections where women are more then -- (()) you don't know there are other sections the rights are the same but more to that the man and the women are not equal . therefore in general a man in all jobs should be paid more ? he should be given more . so that day so every day we should just laugh . let us go now folks to watch Mau comedy till I want to laugh it out today .
T390 Diamond's sister, Queen Darleen incites the beef of Diamond and Ali Kiba 'let his hip hop grow' the musician who is a sister to Diamond Platinum, Queen Darleen has continued to incite hatred and beef to the fans of Ali Kiba and Diamond Platinum after posting words that those fans saw like she continues to incite the beef that is there with the fans of those musicians who by now are very big competitors in the music. towards then end of the week, there was a very big show which took place at the grounds of Ledears Club where in that show it brought together Diamond Platinum together with Ali Kiba whereby each one got a different welcome from their fans. in that there were some of the fans who were happy to attend the show of the two powerful while the show continued, the artist Diamond Platnum was able to throw two thousand shillings notes to his fans. following that act that is where the artist Queen Darleen opened and said that the bottle medicine on the stage is money. "the bottles his whip is his money, we are searching for money and and you search" Queen Darleen's fan have shown unhappiness with the statement that was given by the sister of the star of the music, Diamond Platnum and they believe that the artist continues to incite the beef that is between the fans of Diamond together with Ali Kiba's.
T391 <no-speech> the competition to raise talents in the areas of traditional songs and drama has taken place in Tarime where the delegate of C_C_M general council from Tarime Christopher Gachuma was among the stakeholders creating an awareness for the competition . Emmanuel Amache is -- is preparing the following report from Tarime . <no-speech> <no-speech> these competitions are the first to take place in Tarime district Mara province . the aim is to raise talents in various fields but thing were okay with a bang of the traditional dances . every group tightened the thread to search for championship . <no-speech> <no-speech> Ritungu a very famous dance made Tarime roar very swiftly in a way heads were really shaken . <no-speech> <no-speech> Bongo flavor wasn't left behind but other . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> leaders . our biggest intention is to look into how we can help to grow talents of youths who have the ability of doing things that can also help them in their lives . it is one of the ways of also self employment . our biggest intention is to strengthen and grow the talents of artists . the first winner in the traditional dance got three hundred thousand while every group which didn't win was given a hundred thousand shillings . like a stipend . Emmanuel Amase T_B_C sports Tarime . (()) ~
T392 seminar
T393 Magufuli saves four percentage of the budget Julius Mathias, Mwananchi Magufuli Dar es Salaam. within six months since coming to power, President John Magufuli has succeeded in saving four percent of his first budget in the actions he has taken in curbing expenditure and controlling corruption. President Magufuli who was sworn in on November 5 last year, started by insisting on curbing government expenditure and increasing revenue collection from various sources something that he has achieved according to monthly reports by the Tanzanian Revenue Authority (TRA). TRA announced that it had collected 1.4 trillion shillings in December last year, in January it collected 1.08 trillion shillings and 1.04 trillion shillings in February before collecting 1.316 trillion shillings in March. all those collections were beyond expectations. despite the revenue collected by the procedures of that authority, President Magufuli has been able to save over 1.02 trillion shillings in the time he has been in power. the government has proposed a 29.5 trillion shilling budget for the next financial year. while reading the estimates and use of the revenue to the parliamentary committees, Doctor Philip Mpango the Minister for Finance and Planning said that four percentage of the budget, 17.7 trillion shillings would be for recurrent use and 11.8 trillion shillings for the purpose of development projects. the amount saved by President Magufuli is about half of the income generated by sources that are not taxed and also more than twice the revenue that will be collected by all the councils in the country for that period. it is a lot of money compared to those offered by the US Aid Agency (MCC) in the first phase to implement the distribution of electricity in the villages. within the first 30 days, after making a surprise visit to the treasury and visiting the port several times he saved about 1 trillion shillings. the more than 2,500 containers discovered to have been released without tax being paid for them and other charges gave the government 637.2 billion shillings. those funds were the results of the mandatory payment and fines for the evaders. in November last year when he opened parliament, the President refused to hold ceremonies organized by Members of Parliament and ordered the 225 million shillings to be relocated to areas where there was need. that decision led to those funds buying 300 beds, 300 mattresses, 1,675 blankets and 30 wheelchairs that were handed over to the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH). at the meeting, the President told parliament that his measures of limiting travels abroad for public servants had saved 356.3 billion shillings which could build 400 kilometers of tarmacked road. December 9, last year, Doctor Magufuli put off independence celebrations and directed that the 4 billion shillings allocated be used on the expansion of the road from Morocco to Mwenge, here in the city. implementation of the directive is ongoing. shortly after appointing ministers and their deputies, he canceled the orientation seminar for the leaders. here he saved 2 billion shillings which were allocated to other alternative uses. earlier in April, he scraped the Union Day celebrations and directed that the 2 billion shillings allocated for that be used for the expansion of the airport road to Mwanza. in what appeared to be in support of the efforts at curbing expenditure, Parliament saved 6 billion shillings which it presented to the President in order to purchase desks for schools with the shortage within the country.
T394 Tuesday, November 29, 2016 the UN and EU Conducting Campaigns for Understanding of Sustainable Developmental Goals the European Union (EU) and United Nations (UN) have come together to drive a campaign for understanding of the sustainable development goals (SDGs) in Tanzania. moreover, together they have also toured projects funded by the EU. while in the region of Iringa, they had an opportunity to speak to 1,000 university students from Iringa and Mkwawa universities in a seminar that explained these global goals which are part of the 2030 agenda of the global sustainable development goals. this campaign targets making the youth understand 17 global goals which were set a year ago and inform them their responsibilities in their successful implementation in the Tanzanian environment. the seminar in those universities is part of a firm plan by the United Nations which was launched in Arusha in May of this year by United Nations Agencies Coordinator Mister Alvaro Rodriguez, which aims at educating more than 30,000 youths about the global goals by next year. the EU and UN delegation also got an opportunity to visit various projects that are supported by the EU including a German homestead that was renovated with support from the EU through 'our pride: southern highlands culture solutions'. this homestead is one of the old buildings in Iringa and was built by Germans in 1900 as a military hospital. after the First World War, the building's usage was changed by the new rulers, the English, and turned it into an administrative building. the EU has said it takes pride in being one of the biggest investors in the arts and cultural heritage sector in Tanzania, supporting 10 projects which are under the 10 EDF programs to help cultural issues. issues that relate to cultural heritage are important in enhancing economic and employment growth while fostering community relations and giving an opportunity to the improvement of developmental tourism in Iringa while bringing benefits to the region's residents. Mister Rodriguez, while speaking at the campaign said that agenda 2030, which is a developmental agenda, needs everyone's cooperation. he praised the students and intellectuals for holding firmly in realizing those global goals. moreover, he touched on the importance of the youth's participation in development issues due to the fact that in a nation like Tanzania the youth make up 60 per cent of the entire population. he said that the youth have a huge role in participating in those developments with the aim of taking the country to another step of development. however, he said that it is everyone's responsibility, and especially the youths to ensure that these global goals are achieved. he said the United Nations, with the help of its important partners such as the European Union, will continue helping Tanzanians to take part in various development activities in supporting those global goals. one of the participants praised the United Nations for reaching out to the youth in universities and giving them that seminar. I feel like a lucky person to get an opportunity to learn sustainable development from the United Nations Agencies Coordinator in the country. as a youth, I am comforted to see that our leaders are following the directions defined in the 17 sustainable development goals, I believe that if we work hard to reach them by 2030, then Tanzania and the world as a whole will be a better place to live. "and because I now know about these global goals, I can give my contribution to help achieve them. I feel very enabled," said Mary, one of the participants.
T395 spit syn expectorate
T396 I'm afraid he will use then dump me. I have a lover whom I've known for several weeks now. we made love the second week after knowing each other claiming that is the only way to show we love each other. now he wants us to continue but I am afraid he will use and then dump me. I don't want and I'm still a student. advise me. via SMS, his allegations that making love is the only way to show that people love each other is a total lie. don't agree again since you're still a student and he can impregnate you and then dump you. he has another one: there is a guy who we are in love but I hear people saying that he has another girl. advise me. hearsay can be true or untrue. investigate those reports until you confirm. if you realize it's true, leave him since that shows that he isn't faithful to you.
T397 private part evf genitalia
T72 it is ideal time for TFRA to control the rise in fertilizer prices written by editor published: 22 November 2016 we all know that In order to cope with extreme poverty in the country, this nation needs to ensure that activities being undertaken by 80 percent of its people living in rural areas are successful. these citizens who live more reliably on agriculture should stop relying on small hand hoes for farming in migrant cultivation so that they can satisfy themselves in food and sell others for the day. in addition, Tanzanians we should realize that in promoting welfare and poverty alleviation, there is a significant link between poverty, food security and nutritional problems, and all these find solutions in modern agriculture. we understand that this nation has been in the process of rehabilitation in order to bring rural development in line with the fact that it has long been developing a number of strategies to facilitate rural change. throughout the era of poverty alleviation strategies, something far more commonly spoken is changing to modern agriculture through the use of modern fertilizer. as a result, it is obviously the call of the Minister of Agriculture, Veterinary Affairs and Fisheries, Doctor Charles Tizeba, to call for the Tanzania Fertilization Authority (TFRA) to reduce agricultural costs in the country, including the control the rise of fertilizer prices, has come timely. launching a new TFRA board, that will be led by Doctor Mshindo Msolla, yesterday in Dar es Salaam, Doctor Tizeba said for some time now, there is no standard fertilizer price a matter which makes the government to use billions of finances as a subsidy for fertilizers, the aim being to reduce the big burden of the high fertilizer cost to farmers. that is to say, if there was a standard price, the high cost of production in the agricultural sector could be reduced and therefore farmers would be persuaded to use fertilizer in order to get more income. in order for us to be successful, it is good for that board to listen to the minister especially his directive that he gave of wanting to go through a new the fertilizer act and to look at areas that are not friendly in order to come up with a combined fertilizer buying system, that will make it possible to bring down the price of fertilizer while genuine fertilizer is available. we believe that by removing barriers, the board will be able to monitor closely the production processes and the importation of fertilizer in order to make farmers use quality fertilizers and those that bring worthy profits. we believe that time has come for this nation to ensure that it does not oppress its farmers and through these farmers, we have enough raw materials to go to the middle economy. so it is best to ensure that the farmer does not buy fertilizer that is a fake. we like to believe the words of Chairman of the board, Doctor Msolla, that his board is prepared to confront all defects in the fertilizer industry in order to ensure that farmers get quality fertilizers at affordable prices, and in this we advise other stakeholders to continue to provide cooperation to enable our farmers to have quality fertilizer again at an affordable price.
T73 healthcare providers AIDS Fund- Kigwangala. written by our reporter. published: 1st November 2016. healthcare stakeholders in the country including the member of parliaments have been asked to come and invest in the AIDS Fund so as to cooperate with the government in improving healthcare for the victims of the disease. in addition, the government has said there are no cargoes of drugs to suppress the effects of AIDS (ARVs) that are stuck at the port and those drugs as well as for the vaccine project (vaccine) are present at 100 percent. assistant minister of health, community development, gender, elderly and children, Doctor Hamis Kigwangala gave the plea in parliament today while responding to the additional question of the nominated member of parliament, Susan Lyimo (Chadema). Lyimo wanted to find out about the government's statement on pharmaceuticals that were stuck on the shore due to the Value Added Tax, (VAT) when it will be given to save the lives of AIDS patients and the amount of cash the AIDS Fund has for now. responding to the question, Doctor Kigwangala said no pharmaceuticals are stuck at the port in Dar es Salaam and up to date the AIDS Fund has been allocated six billion shillings from the previous budget. Doctor Kigwangala appealed to healthcare stakeholders in the country, including members of parliament and development partners to come and invest in the fund. explaining more about the existence of drugs, Kigwangala said drugs are 100 percent present in the National and Regional Medical Store Department (MSD). "maybe I should explain what we mean when we say there is 100 percent medicine, it is that drugs are available for six months ahead in national medical stores, they are available three months ahead in the regions and one month ahead in the districts," explained Kigwangala on behalf of the responsible minister, Ummy Mwalimu. in the major question, the nominated member of parliament, Grace Tendega (Chadema) questioned the government's plan to ensure the services to fight against AIDS including education and treatment, continue to be offered even though the World Health Organization (WHO) will withdraw. responding to the question, Doctor Kigwangala said the government has introduced the AIDS Fund in line with the law to address such even when the WHO is moving and through the National Five-Year Development Plan, the government will ensure that services for those living with VVU and public education about AIDS become a continuous agenda.
T70 in Uganda the government has begun a special campaign for cancer testing whereby more than one thousand women are expected to be tested in the first part of that campaign that will run for a period of two months starting next week . the cancers that will be examined according to the authority here in the country are cancer of the cervix together and breast cancer in which statistics show that they have affected many women with its increase being mentioned to be growing at a speed despite the examination campaign a special device which has the ability to detect the initial stages of cancer is expected to be put in more than two thousand women .
T71 players be good role models in the society a good mirror of our community, they should not look at the great value they have. we would love to see our players valuing and respecting themselves together with avoiding things that can destroy their reputations. same to leaders or other famous people in the country, players are role models, because young children that are growing look at them and desire to be them when they grow up. the players should know that when they become popular and recognized by the society they get the power and ability to encourage certain behaviors or certain decisions. some people in the society can copy him for good or even bad things. a good example is David Beckham of England who there was a time he launched a new hairstyle that many people not only in Kenya, even other countries copied his hairstyle. several times we have seen the upcoming players imitate dressing styles, shaving and plaiting of their hair from their famous fellows. those things that players do even just name, people can imitate especially our growing children and those that love games more. even so it is open that players can cause big changes in our society either to be positive or negative. therefore, our players when used well as ambassadors of different activities they will encourage positive changes in the society. a player can start a productive projects from his earning. these projects must not be concerning sports, he can open a school, start a music company or manufacturing of products. it is true that sports is entertainment but also part of employment just like there are other types. the truth is that entertainment does make players
T76 Saturday, August 20, 2016 self-awareness is overcoming selfishness, caring for the needs of others? we began to foster the issue of self-awareness in the previous article. as we have suggested, self-awareness goes hand in hand with understanding the push behind what we do every day. in this section, we will briefly consider why self-awareness is more than the 'selfishness' within us. not listening to the wishes of others? the issue of self-awareness has a long and controversial debate. every community, culture and even one person, looks at this matter with a different eye. in communities that promote personal independence, for example, 'we' are what we have within us that enable us to self-reliance and feel like free people who are alienated from 'bondage' of the expectations and wishes of others. for this reason, self-awareness is giving your self the ability to enter into ourselves, to examine and to bring out what we have without considering so much the opinion of others. entry into ourselves means to investigate our personal goals - which can be quite contrary to the expectations of others - to see how we can bring personal benefits. in this regard, some people remain with two types of contributions to us; it is either helping us or discouraging our goals. of the first group, they must accept and respect our selfishness and thus we give them the opportunity to continue being with them; of the second group we separate ourselves from them, for one big reason, and they are struggling with their selfishness and thus they do not see the value of selfishness (the-us) we have. put forward our personal goals? we use one simple example when a young begins life, he finds himself in the middle of many responsibilities with a mixture of his personal expectations and the community surrounding him. this young man with a low salary finds himself obliged to choose what to achieve personal goals and to support his dependents as relatives, friends and community around him. if we use the above explanation, it means this young man is self-aware, then he's forced to choose to go ahead "in development" and never adjust according to the expectations of others that are directed towards him. Well say he is ready to end up close association with non-assistant friends, to cut off his contacts with his poor brothers in his village who are primarily 'struggling to delay the imagination of his dreams'. these measures to 'isolate himself from social discomfort' are mandatory in order to give the young man the opportunity to focus on achieving his goals beyond the expectations of those who depend on him. that, however, does not mean that the young man should be separated from society or not to compare himself with others in the community. no. the young man is expected to follow closely with youth groups who have "a development viewpoint" that can give him the motivation to reach his own goals. usually, this young man's goals are concentrated on wealth and wealth rather than helping the poor community around him. if it is education, it must help him in the pursuit of wealth. otherwise, that education has no meaning likewise, comparing yourself with others is important. so as he continues 'to succeed' this young man should be obliged to increase his faith and desire to meet his personal needs by looking at the way he goes and the speed of his "fellow peers" and how he becomes better than young men 'who have no development viewpoint". basically, his happiness increases as he becomes better than others and increases personally. what is important is his personal goals. how are the prospects of others? the second perspective of self-awareness is in sharp contrast with the first one. self-awareness means to understand what others expect of us. in social communities that value unity and kinship, it's easy to understand this viewpoint. self awareness isn't looked at with the eyes of our personal wishes only. that is to say 'we' does not interfere with the expectations of the surrounding community or groups we identify with it even though we sometimes disagree with them. identifying yourself, in effect, is going out of our personal desires. self-awareness is to benefit from others, to rely on others and at times to look and evaluate ourselves by turning back to our relationship with others. in this context, the main question of 'who are we' is, 'how do others view me?' people of my group, my party, workmates, people of my faith, my family what do they expect of me? what do I have to give people around me? so we see here self-awareness is the willingness to go ahead of desires, wishes, personal goals and test ourselves by how we can contribute to the well-being of those around us. to accept to be delayed? when we return to the example of the young man we mentioned earlier, the young man will be aware if he will be able to look at the space he has in the community. the young man will be aware that he will be able to decide to take care of others even if it costs the delay of his wishes and personal desires. that (the young man) be ready to consider what he can do in his ability to help his poor brothers in the village and others around him. the young man will be aware if he will be able to delay his dreams of looking like the 'urban youth' in order to be the answer to the challenges of the people he knows need him. that is possible if the young man is ready to keep in touch with 'helpless' friends because he understands that the friends probably need him. the confusion that has no reality? in conclusion, it is probably good to remind ourselves that self-awareness can not be one day's event. self-awareness is a long journey because, as we have seen, there are differences in perspectives that can affect how we measure our self-awareness. when we think we are aware of ourselves, sometimes, others see us in the opposite direction. likewise, it is the truth that is well-known that we are doing much with a push that we do not understand well. sometimes we do not know why we are doing what we do. for example, we may have some tendencies that we do not like but we continue to have them. can we understand and still not know why we are doing what we do? could that not be evidence of why we sometimes do not even know ourselves when we think we know ourselves? maybe that, however, does not mean we can not be aware of ourselves. or are you winning 'the-me'? since we love the conclusions, I conclude it in my personal opinion. the question of 'who are we' is the question of self-awareness. self-awareness is a combination of understanding us (we ask ourselves that question) what we want, and so forth, others who surround us expect what from us. similarly, self-awareness is to recognize and acknowledge our position and accept our responsibility as an essential part of responding to the needs of others. self-awareness is the appreciation for others, motivating others, raising others with no hope for them except the happiness that comes from what we can benefit others even when it comes to our cost. self-awareness is to know where our happiness is. the happiness that comes from benefiting and raising others for justice. self-awareness is winning the-me. do you agree with this view? is it possible? it is going on this article was published in the Mtanzania newspaper. for more discussions follow the Psychology column in the Tanzanian newspaper every Thursday. email: bwaya@mwecau.ac.tz it is written by Christian Bwaya
T77 avoid bhang because it is harmful research despite the presence of many studies proving the effects of bhang on the health of a human being, the efforts of wanting the usage of that product to be legalized continue to increase speed in various places in the world. the neighboring country of Tanzania is the most recent to be seized by the pressure of legalizing bhang after many states in America allowed their civilians to smoke bhang. villagers in Makete district, Njombe province South West of Tanzania want the government to put a law that will legalize the use of that plant. the claims of those villagers that from long ago, they have been using bhang seeds to fry their food without witnessing any health effects is a distorted thought. research that lasted for a prolonged time has proven that the youths who smoke bhang harm their minds, and may lose comprehension and the ability to remember. according to health experts, the youth who began using bhang while under the age of twenty years exhibit very bad results in examinations and demonstrate a major deficiency in their minds. one international body, that did a research on bhang usage, discovered that youth who began using bhang while aged below 18 years when their minds had not matured, lost their ability to understand things quickly. an expert on those issues in the country of England said, perhaps that research, explained why people who use bhang have no ability to understand things easily. apart from being a nation that established itself economically and in many social sectors, America gives a distorted view of bhang usage. Washington is the second state in America to legalize bhang after Colorado, where that state claims to get millions of dollars every month from imposing a tax on bhang businesses for those who use it for entertainment. America's step give the governments of developing nations a hard time to control the farming, business, and usage of bhang because users have many needs and the price is high as compared to other produce. there is a need for leaders and health experts to provide strong a strong argument and of science to oppose bhang usage because similar to marriage between people of the same sex, possibly the campaign to legalize bhang usage may spread in Africa. the painful truth is that bhang is a drug that is highly used. according to a statement by the United Nations on narcotic drugs in 2013, bhang usage has continued to grow in the world starting from 2009 while the average usage in the world is four percent. it's clear that governments that decided to legalize bhang, have removed for themselves the heavy burden of struggle against a type of crime, but it's important to understand that the intoxication of bhang doesn't destroy only health but it also increases the cost of public health and crime. recent research has shown that Tetrahydrocannabinol, a chemical that is found in bhang can easily penetrate the oily wall that protects brain cells and affect brain cells. by considering this, without a doubt bhang is harmful and awareness should be increased.
T74 the ministry of constitution and law intents together with other things to increase the number of judges and part time judges in the two thousand and twelve two thousand and thirteen financial year the plan being to reduce the accumulation of cases and prisoners . Beatrice Eric reports more . <no-speech> presenting his budget to the parliament in Dodoma city the minister of constitution and law Matias Chikawe has said the government intends to improve the mode of case hearing in the courts so that to put truthfulness on those cases the matter that will avoid blames and complaints . likewise that minister of constitution and law has said that the government has helped to bring the international media freedom laws that will touch on both side that are news organization and the citizens . <no-speech> this law will be in the international level and will be an important part of implementation of the whole system of a transparent government in the country . the foundation of this law is not freedom for information from the magazine or news organizations but is the freedom of the citizens themselves to get important information concerning their development in all levels starting from central government where there are a lot of information up to the villages . the honorable deputy speaker still the issue of unhealthy government contracts and different companies especially foreign is a matter that is disturbing the Tanzanian society . this situation is translated that the office of the attorney general that was given the responsibility of advising the government before entering into contracts or is involved with bribery or its civil servants do not have enough expertise on this foreign contract . the committee requests the government to take this with a unique importance because it influences even our country's economy . on his side the opposition's chief whip in parliament Tundu Lisu has said that the tight budget that do not meet the responsibilities of the courts is the source of the accumulation of cases in courts . the time when the first courts have succeeded by ninety-nine point seven percent in hearing and providing decisions of pieces of advice that were opened in those courts . the honorable deputy speaker if the real situation would be this as explained by the ministry then it is clear that our country would not have this problem of accumulation of cases in our all courts and therefore the ministry would have mentioned as one of the challenges of of Tanzanian courts the increase of those pieces of advice hence causing the accumulation of the pieces of advice in the courts . <no-speech> and if the ministry would not have had the challenges of tight budgets that do not meet the responsibilities of the courts or money -- for the provision of the yearly work plan cards and within how it is claimed in the explanations of that same ministry . from Dar es Salaam Beatrice Eric Channel Ten .
T75 now today a misunderstanding broke out between fish traders at the ferry market and the Ilara municipality director . concerning the appointment of an investor at the market that has been built through the assistance of Japanese development agencies . traders at the Dar es Salaam ferry fish market have opposed the action taken by the Ilara municipality director to announce tenders for the collection of garbage levy and garbage removal at the market . in the resolutions of their meeting fish traders in this market claim that the bidding process had not involved them and the contract indicates that the bidder will pay the Ilara municipality thirty million shillings each month in order to be able to undertake sanitation services inside and out of the market and will pay himself through collecting levy from the fishermen and fish traders . Jumanne Pazia the Chairman for the fruits and vegetables stalls association at the market has said that they oppose the decision because in case -- (()) B_E_C_H_C_O_M will start working at the beginning of April this year as planned -- the most affected would be the fish traders who will also on one side be forced to increase fish prices and thus hurt the consumer . the municipality should respect us because they have been taking taxes from us for ten years now . they have not refunded us even ten shillings . today they hand us bids . how exactly we ask ourselves ? this bid that you are forcing on us director how much has it given us in return ? the owners of modern buildings built and refined by mirrors can reduce more than fifty percent of the cost of servicing their buildings through the rope access technology where buildings are cleaned using ropes instead of crane machines . speaking before commencing the work on cleaning the C_M building in Dar es Salaam city Abdukari Mtumba a specialist in the technology said the rope access technology could be used to clean a tall building with a height of up to two hundred feet in a short time . therefore for us here -- it is very easy . we are using rope access we use ropes -- to fasten and what but this accident is a rope access function . <no-speech> so for example to clean maybe this window maybe from top to bottom you can spend about thirty minutes from the top there to this point and Charles Mtawali the building's owner has said rope access technology can -- it enables the owners of tall buildings to do regular cleaning on their buildings and thus keep the town and city of Dar es Salaam in a pleasant and attractive state at all times . that we are just striving -- to help the citizens there are many jobless youth to learn this job to make endless income . the number of clients using the service to send and receive money through M_Pesa of the Vodacom cell phone company has risen to between fifteen and twenty percent each month after the method proved to be easier and secure than any other kind of money transfer . while speaking at a ceremony to present the winner of the M_Pesa promotion Peter James Kilalo a prize of ten million shillings Dylan Lennox the M_Pesa services director said the promotion has increased customer confidence in the M_Pesa service . on his part Kilalo has said gaming is like a dream that one day can come true and has therefore advised Vodacom customers to continue participating in the M_Pesa promotion . I do not believe that these things exist . but today because it has happened to me I believe that the trading consulting companies and the Nihilent communications technology of India have set up a commercial partnership with the Equip trade and good management consulting company in Tanzania that will help the two companies to grow commercially and provide better customer service . while speaking during the launch of the partnership Minur Dastur the Executive Director for Nihilent and the Executive Director for Equip Kahwa said that there are many investment opportunities in the country that require local and foreign traders to cooperate in order to make full use of those opportunities . they said that their cooperation would involve the exchange of experiences in trade affairs and would help Tanzanian traders engage in competitive business . for me today I'm very excited because it's basically from our interaction our value proposition and your intervalue proposition complement each other whereby we (()) -- whereby we can offer an end to end solution to our clients . if we work we want to be more efficient we want to be more productive we want A better cost to income ratio that is how we end our news on business and the economy for our T_B_C One viewer . my name is Stanley Ganze continue being with us on a day and time like today .
T78 the ministry of livestock and fishery development has threatened to ban selling of skin outside the country if it will reveal fraud including -- including evading of tax on transporting those goods . the news of Jimmy Mengele is read here in studio . the minister for livestock and fishing development Doctor Mathayo -- David Mathayo has said the government will pin down owners of leather industries in the country to buy the skin in good prices that will benefit the sellers where he has said the industry that will fail to buy at a price that will be started will be denied the license to do that business . Doctor Mathayo has given this statement while at Tanzania Tanneries leather company Morogoro where the management of the company raised a concern about evading income tax and illegal exportation . ten containers of leather that were nabbed having evaded duty at the port of Dar es Salaam last year . this fraud if it goes on the other thing we shall come to do is do completely abolish selling of -- of -- of leather out of the country I abolish it so that leather stays in the country . <no-speech> it should not be sold outside as Kenya and Uganda are doing but also we shall put an indicative price . meaning a price to -- to start with . because we cannot now allow leather factories in the country to set prices . moreover minister Mathayo has said he has already increased the number of workers in the department follow up and giving movement permits . leadership outside the country . the aim being to control bribery loop holes and illegal transportation of leather which costs the country income . speaking at the industry the chairperson of Tanzania Tanneries Association mister Onorato Garavaglia has said the government has been losing an amount more than one point five million per month . what is the problem for the fund ? because most of the received (()) now it suggests a high price because these people they don't pay duty each container now what he says is true I think it's us who have (()) -- containers got lost . the containers were found here having T_R_A saying this now is our business so they means to your business again . you see now ? so that -- that thing moved to T_R_A they said we have our rules and everything will have (()) this year . <no-speech> the Minister for the Development of Livestock and Fishing was on a one day tour of Morogoro Province where among other things he talked to stakeholders of the meat sector visited the meat industry the leather industry and the livestock institution LITI . <no-speech>
T79 (()) one of the engineers who are implementing the projects of TANESCO advised TANESCO to create awareness to the citizens whom the project goes past about the importance of that project so that they can protect it . <no-speech> at the doors is one . <no-speech> when you arrive in those villages you gather many people . we are asking you then to emphasize on the protection of infrastructure that we are putting up because we might be putting up then later because we pass in that place with -- with trees and there can emerge arsonists and later destroy the infrastructure . because you are having many people we ask you then to expand your campaign and you insist on the protection of the projects we are taking . and the second similarly is a request the you explain to them the cost price of the projects it's the government providing those money to take the electricity . because it's very possible there in the village to be thinking that electricity is something very easy therefore you can just get it and (()) his . the manager of TANESCO Nzega province advises the availability of a regulated price of electricity that results from the project of R_E_A in order to lower the cost of life of the citizens . in the this project of R_E_A this phase one we have seen very many challenges . <no-speech> and similarly in %incomplete according to the country procedures electric engineers get licenses from EWURA . <no-speech> and the goal (()) of the government to incorporate the price then was to lower the severity of life of the citizens in the village . <no-speech> but we see that after lowering the price the citizens are not benefiting because of that (()) they are charged very highly because the contractors themselves are using (()) to go to the villages to do the jobs . (()) consultancy and marketing section if it could consult with EWURA at least in the villages' project to have a regulated price like that of petrol each person to put in his home but there is a regulated price so that at least we can we can get many customers and to lower for the citizens this year . participants of strategy symposium of TANESCO in achieving the plans of the government to supply electricity in the villages were given a leadership challenge so that they can carry out their responsibilities with more accuracy . <no-speech> together that many people do not have project management skills but there is that knowledge that we have been given by God . its not a must you be -- you be very learned . <no-speech> the first thing I request (()) my fellow I teach you that in leadership there are tools more than a hundred you as a leader . now me I will give you three . which each person to use starting today . <no-speech> tool number one when you are a leader in any place is a must you introduced yourself who are ? that responsibility you are given introduce it first . be confident in that your position . that is number one . <no-speech> number two after you introduce yourself do not be timid . <no-speech> tool number two do not be timid . <no-speech> tool number three have a difficult decision . my siblings without these things cannot move you must have difficult decisions . am speaking this painfully because I have things -- examples is here it have happened to me myself in the year two thousand and twelve . <no-speech> I have been sort after in Kimbiji province from Yombo . <no-speech> then I found the contractor have build the project one with like six pillars . is -- is just short not very big . the areas of Sarasara village . <no-speech> when I arrived the supervisor who came before me because I arrived he was taken elsewhere then I found him supervising that project . <no-speech> now I found (()) who (()) him . contractor is complaining that he has not been paid because the supervisor has not written the certificate . now there I saw (()) either this supervisor had no enough expertise on project matters and was dodging him . now the first thing I did I explained to him please -- take me to see the project . then I went and checked it -- and checked -- and checked -- and saw (()) it was there . when I turned in the office I imagined (()) a man just quickly (()) . <no-speech> I think it took like a day (()) and it was found . after finding it I explained to Yusuf (()) to give me like a week I will get in that book . because I was (()) what I saw on site then I see I went on not (()) I went on (()) specifications (()) specifics I don't know what conditions after finishing to go through then I went to offer a formal advice the thing he did comparable to the contract is like I separated those two things but is like -- before I prepared the certificate then I explained to the contractor that there were many shortfalls I had seen . <no-speech> number one in the book of contract we need you to use the pillar of thirteen frameworks . you have used the pillars of the frameworks (()) . <no-speech> you as the contractor who is paid are all of these not substandard I don't see -- I don't see this -- I don't see that . he has used (()) that is (()) like (()) . <no-speech> now I certainly requested him make these corrections before I prepare the certificate . now there I have told you that story so that you can know that I recognize myself . I am a leader I have been given a responsibility . <no-speech> I must .
T365 smell syn odor
T364 'help the government to pay taxes'. its written by John Gagarini, Mkuranga. published; 21 October 2016. citizens need to have a culture of paying various slices of government taxes for the purpose of development as the citizens of Libya do. this has been said by the director of the institution of World Islamic Call Society located under the Libya embassy in the country, Ammara Zaiyani when delivering a wells water project in Binga village- Kisiju, Mkuranga. he said that the funds that helped the construction of that borehole of drinking water is worth 18 million shillings they are from the taxes of citizens of Libya because of helping people who are challenged differently in development. "the citizens of Libya have volunteered to help their fellows like that, therefore you are supposed to have a tradition of helping others through the different payments of your government which says, Here it is only work," said Zaiyani the Ambassador's Representative of Libya in the country, Mohammed Atoumi said the government of Libya through that Institution it has been getting different requests and it has been helping according to the capacity that they have. Atoumi said they have been helping different sectors including provision of healthcare, water and different activities of development, the main is to promote the cooperation that is there with Tanzania. the Chief Muslim Judge of the Coast province, Shehe Hamis Mtupa thanked them for that aid, he said it has helped 2,555 citizens of that village by removing the trouble of walking for a long distance to look for water, some times it is not clean and safe water.
T367 crisis solution syn answer
T366 understand the behavior of men who have artistic love. in the daily love life, there are those who are pained time and again and complain as if love wasn't made to be enjoyable but painful and just blamable for them. unfortunately, many who are in this group are the female gender. many have significantly been combated by these troubles because of not understanding some of the behaviors of the second gender which largely seems to every time hurt the others. this painful and deception situation in love is there for all who are in marriage and unfortunately many have decided to simplify it by finding comfort on the side. this condition has really degraded the value of those in these marriages. these days, they call them "MBA" and this is not masters in business administration but "married but available" meaning he or she is married but available any time you need a lover. many are just in marriages these days so as to protect respect and avoid the disgrace of divorce while love to them already became open business. Alexander, an American relationships expert when interviewed by the CNN television station revealed that, women are the ones who seemed to have many relationships outside than men and the difference present between them and the men suffering is that, they are experts in keeping secrets of what is happening. meaning that, it is easy to catch a man cheating in love than a woman, although it is said that women have a reason for everything they do, different from men who can go outside for love without even a reason. you will find that every time they are caught, they will have very many reasons to defend themselves, some which are headless and legless. they become people who hide what they are doing, concealing their deception and striving to control their inner feelings of accusation (guilty) which is caused by the truth that they have a relationship on the side. in this accusatory feeling, sometimes they become frequently moody or irritated by even small things and quarrel for very common things. so as to help you, I would like to give you a few traits of men with artistic love. from the experience I get in handling people's relationships and psychological problems, I have discovered that many targeted by the effects of these behaviors are those who get into or are in relationships with married men. the first trait: they are permanently people who really avoid giving or receiving presents. they are clever in a way of convincing you to know that they were created like that, and that they are ready to do bigger things in love but not for presents, but the truth is that they are avoiding conditions which will make them suspicious to their wives or another side lover. you know in gifts, many things can happen. others have been caught with receipts of purchases made and others have been asked when they bought a shirt. or, how comes I don't know of that perfume, where did it come from? therefore, be very attentive when you see this sign in your love.
T361 <no-speech> <no-speech> it's like -- they didn't have a good arrangement because this time is the rainy season . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> and you get now when they made that trench of draining water from the road this other project of removing this waste water they could have included it -- %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm . or (()) -- or (()) different right ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> like people who build %incomplete <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> is different (()) more than the road . -- even if people to -- to -- even if they are different people this is a government project . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm government project they know (()) %incomplete <no-speech> and -- and the government here we will make that waste water and this of draining water from the road . <no-speech> waste water trench waste %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> now they could do something when those who built them give what of the water from the - the water to - pour the water - of the road . mm . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> they should have told those who built this waste water trench they build together . (()) . <no-speech> this one while he digs his this one -- this one also to dig his . (()) one . <no-speech> now you find those from the waste water should have dug first they pass their line because theirs is the lowest . mm . <no-speech> there are people (()) %incomplete do you see ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech>
T360 leaders in Elgeiyo defends Murkomen on conflict with governor by Everlyne Simiyu a conflict is continuing to bruise among leaders of Elgeyo Marakwet regarding the retirement of the former Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo and the appointment of his successor. a group of youths and experts defended Senator Kipchumba Murkomen (pictured) against some members of parliament that he was involved with "sacking of" Mister Kimaiyo for failing in the job. "the retiring Inspector of Police decided by himself to retire out of the pressure from Kenyans following the rise of insecurity in the country, and it is inappropriate for some leaders to blame the senator regarding that decision," said the chairperson of Kerio youth association, Aggrey Kiptoo. several Members of Parliament from Elgeyo/Marakwet County have threatened to ditch themselves from Jubilee coalition and blamed Mister Murkomen for "the sacking" of Mister Kimaiyo. the members of parliament, Kangogo Bowen (East Markwet), William Kipsang (West Marakwet), Doctor James Murgor (Keiyo North), Doctor Susan Chebet (County female member of parliament), Governor Alex Tolgos and former member of parliament Francis Mutwol have pleaded with President Uhuru Kenyatta to think of filling that gap with someone from that area. Mister Kimaiyo who retired last month, is from Elgeyo Marakwet county. but they have claimed that Sanator Murkomen was involved in his removal from office and they want him to explain about the issue fully.
T248 cleanliness in the cashews fields is the only criterion in dealing with various diseases that attack the crop . this shoot has the ability to keep bacteria as we can see here . these leaves have been attacked by diseases they can remain like this from one season to another because there are no alternative places to be attacked other than the cashew tree . immediately there appears areas other than the cashew tree since by having new stems and flowers then these bacteria are flown by the wind to attack those new stems and the flowers that have emerged out of the cashew tree . <no-speech> so failing to abide by the professional procedures and protocols that demonstrate how cashew nut leaves are supposed to be trimmed results in a prone environment to cashew trees being infected by diseases . the insect that is alive because one that is -- that has matured has a habit of perceiving -- of disguising to be dead when a person approaches or when it senses something shaking . it drops itself down and lies so still that if you look at it you might think it is dead . but it stays and listens to you if it realizes that the movements that were there have vanished it gets up and starts to crawl and proceed with its journey . therefore it was named disguised death . now the worm bug is that he has a tendency to attack the shots . <no-speech> nevertheless it can emerge and the farmer ends up getting unwanted shoots without expecting . just as a result of the ignorance of its cause . <no-speech> if (()) technical procedures can be adhered to in addressing it and thereby avoiding effects of infection of the diseases in the cashew fields . when we leave such cashew tree leaves at our place during the time of (()) then -- these results have the capacity to remove (()) like these . but if this farmer could have removed these and prone here then this shoot could not have emerged . and similarly as we see here he could have (()) so as to remove and prone it from here . these shoots could not have managed on the other hand cashew farmers when reducing causes of disease infections on cashew fields it translates that they reduce the use of pesticide as well as adding value to the limited cashew in the national and international markets . <no-speech> and what this adult pest that has matured does is that -- it borrows it borrows in the tree to the inner nucleus . it bypasses the outer layer and enters the inner layer and once in there it lays eggs . later on once this eggs hatch the worms emerges . once those worms emerge they cannot gnaw the inner nucleus . therefore what happens is that they emerge then they stay in between the nucleus and the bark . they start gnawing from inside . therefore when they chew from the inside and the major sign will be that the place where it is situated there at the entrance hole that -- where it will have emerged from remains with fine tissues like those of timber therefore you know well that this insect is in there . hence it will gnaw and if there will be no way to control it early it can make that cashew tree to get to this state that is the cashew tree has died . <no-speech> so it is %incomplete
T249 editor
T246 worms hyp parasite
T247 campaign against elephantiasis and hydrocele should be supported written by editor published: 26 October 2016 residents of Dar es Salaam have begun taking immunization medicine to prevent elephantiasis, hydrocele and worms. we congratulate the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children in collaboration with Dar es Salaam regional leaders and stakeholders, to run the campaign, which will take place for five days until October 30, this year. we support the call of the organizer of National Coalition for Diseases that Have Not Been Prioritized (NTDs), Doctor Upendo Mwingira, who said that all people from five years of age and above have taken these medications. as Doctor Mwingira said, the drugs have no effect on humans, and that the Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) has already checked and confirmed. we encourage citizens from five years of age and above to volunteer to take these drugs at health centers and service providers in various parts of Dar es Salaam, they are being offered, because these diseases, elephantiasis, hydrocele and worms are extremely dangerous from its major effects, such as affecting liver and brain. we congratulate the head of Dar es Salaam Regional Head, Paul Makonda for launching the distribution of immunization against the disease today at the Buguruni Health Center, where he also warned many things about the diseases. according to Makonda, 10 percent of the region's population, have infections of elephantiasis and hydrocele, compared to other regions that are less than five percent. the level is too big and alarming and the government and stakeholders should increase their energy, ensuring that these non-priority diseases are being finished in the region, where all those who are diagnosed with the disease should first be treated through surgery. the motivation factor is that approximately 4,000 people, who have already been diagnosed with these diseases, will be undergoing surgery at each surgical centers in each district this week. we congratulate the organizers of the campaign by allocating a number of centers, where according to Regional physician Doctor Grace Maghembe there are total 956 permanent stations, providing the services and 170 mobile centers. also, all ministries and government institutions will be set up centers to ensure that they reach each regional resident and aim to reach 4 million residents. 5. let us stop misconceptions that if someone drinks these drugs, he cannot get a baby. these drugs are safe and effective for human use. the disease is spread with all sorts of mosquitoes, so let us clean up our environment to kill mosquitoes breeding places. that way will make us safe from those diseases. citizens come out in numbers for five days, to fight these diseases by taking immunizations.
T244 Obama strives to close Venezuela's Guantanamo Bay prison with restrictions Washington, USA White House is about to reach its goal of closing the Guantanamo Bay military prison, which has been used to detain terrorists. and while President Barack Obama has been committed to accelerating the closing process, analysts say he may not be able to close it while in power. last week, six prisoners were transferred to other areas after being released from the prison. the six, including four Syrians, a Palestinian and a Tunisian were transferred to Uruguay after serving 13-year prison term. the move results in the number of prisoners released this year to 19, 13 of them being transferred in a period of one month. "our position on the prison is due to its activities threatening nationalist security and should be closed," said Patrick Ventrel, a spokesperson for the Security Council. "US citizens should not be spending hundreds of millions of dollars every year for an institution that affects our relationship with the countries that are our main allies," he said. Washington, The United States Congress of the United States passed a law that promotes strong restrictions against Venezuela officials linked to human rights violations. this step is ironical considering that United States is on fire for torturing of terrorist suspects. the leaders are involved in the support of attacks against protesters who were against the government earlier this year. thousands of activists were arrested while more than 43 were killed during the protests against President Nicholas Maduro's government, who was elected to replace the late Hugo Chavez. the protests lasted from Feb to May. the United States announced traffic disputes against officials in July. the failure of that rule to make changes in government is the fact that there has been an increase in those obstacles
T245 interpreter
T242 Sydney cries to Tanzanian citizenship to do things Imani Makongoro, Mwananchi imakongoro@mwananchi.co.tz 20 years ago the family of Wilhelm Gidabuday and Eva Balthazar had a son, Sydney, at the age of five, her parents began to teach him athletics at one of the athletic centers, California County, USA. although Sydney's parents are Tanzanians who were born in Hanang in Manyara Region, their son is an American citizen by birth and in August this year he will carry the flag of the United States at the Olympic Games in Brazil, competing in 5,000 meters race. reason for being American citizen "my parents were studying the United States, where I was born on August 21, 1996 in the city of Riverside, California County, USA. "my parents told me when I was two years old I was brought to Tanzania, I joined with my Hanang colleagues and shepherding calves according to our traditions. "class one I started in Arusha, Swift Academy, but later I was taken back to California to get my rights of free education, health and sports opportunities," reports Sydney. how does he feel not to carry Tanzania flag in the Olympics? Sydney, a student at the Adam State University (ASU) located in Rockies hills of the state of Colorado on a special program of NCAA Scholarship Program says he ever asked for Tanzanian citizenship but has failed. "I love Tanzania and that is why I am in the United States, wearing Tanzanian jazzy, bangles and colorful bibs with the Tanzanian flag, US allows for dual citizenship, but I cannot be a Tanzanian as my parents are due to the Constitution. "I grew up in the United States but my origin is Tanzania, where my parents are, I wish Tanzania would allow dual citizenship for to go home and do great things for my country," says Sydney.
T243 slavery 'by choice' is coming May 31, 2012 now let's prepare to witness our children, running to slavery in the thousands. parents and close brothers of African youth are required to be ready psychologically, to confront the loss of those youth who will soon leave to take themselves into slavery by choice. where are they going? not elsewhere, but there in America, where were taken millions of Africans who were sold there like beasts of burden, Africans who are the ones who built America's great wealth. now America has a black president, whose victory has been celebrated so much by Africa and the whole world in general. now, this black president wants volunteers, especially black, to go and help him fight in wars that American youth themselves are absconding, like this of Afghanistan. America says, now that any youth who isn't an American citizen who wants citizenship, will be given citizenship in six months, just six months, provided that he be ready to join the American army to go fight Afghanistan and elsewhere where things have gone from bad to worse. this procedure had never been done since the end of the Vietnam war, which, from its ferociousness, needed youth from many countries in the world, especially from the third world, and who volunteered and were bribed with the gift of citizenship. this news, without a doubt, will contain a taste of Bongo flavor for our youth who pass saying, "rather a dog in Europe than a villager in Bongo." they will migrate to America, again in large numbers, not just because they have been called to go there but also because this country doesn't appear to know what it wants to do with its youth. they have been left to sprout like weeds in a deserted place. hope has not been cultivated in their future lives and it's true that they can believe that it's better to be a slave in Europe than to be "free" in Africa. that's the story from everywhere in the African continent that show, like in Senegal, where the youth are saying if it's dying let them die, but there is no remaining in Africa, and their mothers agree with them! now I should say - I shouldn't say, who should say?
T240 publicity protest
T241 congratulation syn felicitation USA
T98 <no-speech> C_R_D_B bank has donated medicines and hospital equipment worth fifteen million shilling to fight cholera in the municipality of Kinondoni in the city of Dar es Salaam . talking during the handover of that support executive director of C_R_D_B Doctor Charles Kimei and Kinondoni municipal director engineer Musa Nati said that such assistance has been provided because it is one of the districts most affected by that disease . the bank will use this special customers service week to offer various donations to the community including visit -- visiting areas with similar needs -- as those that require -- many times require donations . we will visit hospitals schools and orphanages and other places that we will see require visits and require support -- from us . I am sure nothing will overcome us if we will cooperate together . <no-speech> regardless of our different party ideologies and religion to cooperate together on basic issues like this one . <no-speech>
T99 mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> because you have slept ? you are getting up . (()) mm ? <no-speech> you go or sit . <no-speech> I get up ? ten minutes -- ten minutes . <no-speech> (()) now maybe it's like two minutes are over now see you have remained with (()) %incomplete mm ? <no-speech> now hear those others (()) %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I would have been -- I would have been dreaming about you . <no-speech> <no-speech> go away . (()) . yeah . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> but stop %incomplete there is something I was recording let me see if it recorded . <no-speech> it is something I am recording then I'll give you money . okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> hey a thousand shillings for airtime ? <no-speech> yes . they share with us (()) -- they share with us because even us have helped them . mm mm . I too want -- I too want . <no-speech> yes ? <no-speech> mm mm mm . <no-speech> they give us ? <no-speech> they share the money with us . how ? <no-speech> not so ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> ten minutes are not over . don't hang up the phone -- don't hang up the phone . okay . you try -- try and see if you have received the money . <no-speech> <no-speech> as in ? <no-speech> <no-speech> check out if you have received the money . (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> I check out %incomplete haven't you told me there is money you have received ? <no-speech> <no-speech> there is not . <no-speech> mm . mmhm . <no-speech> lets share this money just now in the morning . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> lets share the money in the morning hours . <no-speech> (()) you mm . and you love money because you are %incomplete <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> not about being Kikuyu . mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what is it ? <no-speech> really . what is it with you that even a child knows your place . <no-speech> there is not . <no-speech> mm . get up -- get up and go to work now . <no-speech> <no-speech> okay . can you try then you will wake me up ? <no-speech> pardon ? <no-speech> have you tried and found out how much money you have received then you will wake me up . no -- no -- it's not over . <no-speech> not so . <no-speech> mm . until -- until you get up till I will tell you the time that it will be over so you continue talking . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> mm as in just continue talking ? (()) . <no-speech> go away . pardon ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . (()) . you just continue talking %incomplete <no-speech> not so ? <no-speech> mm ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> can you wait I search for words then I wake up and start talking ? <no-speech> now can you tell me ? <no-speech> mm ? yesterday -- yesterday you slept early ? <no-speech> <no-speech> how early ? <no-speech> you slept early . you told me goodnight ? you did not wish me goodnight . <no-speech> I told you %incomplete <no-speech> mm . you have started to yawn on the phone ? mm mm . mm mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> you mean you are still sleeping and I am talking to you ? did I not tell you . <no-speech> look at her . <no-speech> drink . I have woken up -- I have woken up . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . you are not awake -- you are not awake ? I have woken up . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I want to go to exercise now . <no-speech> parent . to run mm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> since when ? when did you start ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? I am starting today . <no-speech> <no-speech> today ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> do you want to go now because I have called you ? you are not going I'm not even hanging up -- even if you're shocked let me extend it to twenty minutes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hey twenty again ? what . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . okay then talk -- talk . Facebook . <no-speech> <no-speech> what are you doing ? mmhm oh . you have told me you have slept now wake up . <no-speech> I have woken up . <no-speech> you have not woken up ? I can see you're still asleep . <no-speech> where have you seen ? I am awake . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> ahh . now I have realized that you are a fake person you cannot talk through a phone for ten minutes ? ohh %incomplete <no-speech> ten o'clock in the morning you should have come in the evening . <no-speech> <no-speech> I come in the evening ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> there is nothing like getting exhausted . you wake up . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> come we take tea . <no-speech> okay I am coming . <no-speech> <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> have you kept mine for me ? <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> you have %incomplete is there my share ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> by around eleven o'clock I will be there . <no-speech> <no-speech> what will you do at eleven o'clock ? <no-speech> <no-speech> its when I will be coming there . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> to take my tea . <no-speech> <no-speech> do you know yours ? <no-speech> <no-speech>
T149 the minister of mineral and energy Professor Muhongo arrives in England. February 24, 2013 the minister of Energy and Electricity, Professor Sospeter Muhongo arrived in England today Sunday for special visit of the government that will take four days. the minister was welcomed by our Ambassador, Honorable Peter Kallaghe, and he is expected to meet with different leaders of Britain's government and the experts concerned with the activities of minerals, education and international development. among the officers that he is expected to meet with them tomorrow Monday, it is together with the Minister of Britain who is concerned with African issues, Mister Mark Simmonds; the Deputy Minister of international Development in Britain, Missus Lynn Featherstone; and the Member of Parliament of Stratford of Conservative Party, Mister Jeremy Leffroy who is also the Chairman of a parliamentary group of England who are involved with Tanzania (APPG). Tuesday five o'clock in the evening, the Minister who is also appointed Member of Parliament has planned to speak with Tanzanians who live in Britain in the hall of our Ambassador in London. the hall is on 3 Stratford Place, London W1C 1AS. Stratford Place that is next to the main road of Bond it is a few seconds only, in front is a train station and buses of Bond street. the Minister who is also the appointed Member of Parliament who are leading with Doctor Athanas Macheyeki of inspection of Minerals in Tanzania, Seleman Hatibu Chombo he is in the department of energy in the Ministry of Minerals and Energy and Mister Sosthenes Masau Bigambo Massola, his secretary the minister, Muhongo is an academician who is a specialist in issues of Sayansi and study of stones and minerals. apart from being a professor and the chief editor of the "Journal of African Earth Sciences" as well as a party member of different international associations of mineral and Sayansi those associations are "Geological Society of London," "Geological Society of America" "Chinese Academy of Geological Sciences" and "Tanzania Academy of Sciences". that leader is the Vice President of the commission of the map of mineral in the world that was established in France in 1881. the main aim of that commission is to develop the issues of the environment, minerals and the world weather and the President is Philippe Rossi the winner of different awards of education and Sayansi, Professor Muhongo was born in Musoma, year 1954 and he finished his education in the universities of Dar es Salaam and Germany. last year he was awarded "Ordre des Palmes Academics," by the government of France that give to the experts who contributed to the subjects of education and tradition from the time it was started by the famous King Napoleon in the 19th century. year 2007, that leader was given an award of honor ("Honors Award") with the Association of Minerals of South Africa and 2004 he was awarded the award of "Robert Shackleton" with Association of Minerals in Africa. Robert Shackleton who died in 2001, is a Britain who continued with the mining of minerals in South Africa. in Tanzania, the Minister Muhongo has received a gift from the Vice Chancellor of the main University (1977) a gift from Gondwana (1979) and the international Research of Science and technology (NARST) award which is awarded by the Commission of Science and Technology in Tanzania (2006).
T148 SMZ to improve the infrastructure of sports. written by Mwajuma Juma, Zanzibar published: 24 September 2016 the revolutionary government has said that it will continue to strengthen the celebrations of the free education festival, to restore that character and picture that was customary in the past years. the statement was issued by the President of Zanzibar, the Chairman of the Revolutionary Council, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, at the peak of the Day of Free Education festivals held at the Amaan Stadium here in the city. he said that to achieve that goal, the Government would continue to create a good environment for strengthening sports infrastructure, including playgrounds and facilities in their schools. he informed that the opportunity would provide opportunities for students with specific needs and without special needs to participate effectively in sporting activities, arts and culture. "I made a deliberate decision to create the department of sports and culture with an aim of strengthening sports and cultural activities in our schools, in the ministry of education and training of occupation, to offer opportunities for our youth to participate in sports and cultural activities while at school," he said. so he said that it was his expectation that the decision would help build students' health and increase their ability to learn as well as visualize, promote and develop their talent. "I sincerely congratulate our department for the good decision of the ministry of education to start well and to oversee the activities of strengthening sports in our schools," he said. earlier the Minister of education and occupational training, Riziki Pembe Juma said, his ministry will continue to provide better education and strengthen the revival of talent in schools. free educational festival started officially on September 17 this year, through charity walks and involving various sports, where this year's slogan is Best Education First.
T419 it's the third one . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> okay then %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> I was asking you %incomplete I am hearing you . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> there is also a girl %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> she sells tea on eighth street we call her Muthoni . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> there is a girl who sells tea %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> she is called Muthoni . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> mm eighth street . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm maybe . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> Nyutu ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> she -- she also cooks tea on eighth street ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> okay I would want to talk to her too in the evening hours %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> I wanted you to -- to give her my number %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> I am hearing you . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> give her my number %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I wanted to talk to her as well . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh but you should %incomplete now %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> so in the evening -- in the evening I can pass by there if I will be able to %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> we go with you to Pumwani so that I know if I will take khat too %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm then I also try to -- to sell in Umoja . <no-speech>
T418 the national election of ODM stirred up in Kasarani. and Charles Wasonga. a black cloud for politics covered the ODM party early this year, when its national election results in chaos which happened in the sports ground of Kasarani, Nairobi. chaos started shortly after casting votes started, where a special member of parliament Isaac Mwaura when he climbs on top of a table to complain that his name does appear on ballot papers. that member of parliament said that his name was suppose to be number six on that ballot paper but it was removed and his space was taken by Peter Ole Musei without special reason to be given either him to be consolidate. he was vying for a special post for deputy secretary general in the camp of Budalangi member of parliament Ababu Namwamba (now the prime minister) who vying chair of secretary general in the Nation. he claimed that there was a conspiracy to throw him out of the contest while saying the electoral board, the ODM party leader refused to hear his complaint. and suddenly violence broke out when people dressed in black suits (who later were named "Men in Black") began kicking and breaking ballot boxes while turning down the tables and destroying other voting materials. running off, the delegates who were in a line waiting for their turn to vote were forced to run while others sought refuge to prevent themselves from being harmed by chairs that were thrown in the air with those huge men. the free movie took place before Mister Odinga and other invited guests including his fellow party leader of Cord Mister Kalonzo Musyoka. several minutes before Mwaura submitted his complaints, the member of parliament for Dagoretti North Simba Arati was harshly criticized when he was given a chance to speak. Mister Arati, a close associate of Mister Odinga, was vying for a part leader position against Mister Odinga, a situation which seemed to displease some of the die-hard followers of the former Prime Minister in the past regime. the criticism towards Arati suggests that the situation was not calm in the event and such a fate would have followed all those who were thought to be in support of the wing that did not seem to be favorable to Mister Odinga. the plot and that's why after the violence broke out, rumors has it that Mister Odinga was well acquainted with the "Men In Black" plot because some of them have been seen to give him protection at his political meetings. it was reported that those thugs were hired to disrupt that exercise if the side that Odinga supported was seen to be losing. all the signs indicated the group for Namwamba and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho would have floored that of nominated Senator Agnes Zani with Homa Bay Senator the late Otieno Kajwang'. during the campaigns analysts said that Odinga was supporting Doctor Zani camp who was vying for the secretary general position. this is due to the step for the supporters of the site, Mathalan, the late Kajwang' said that Ababu was bark and black (Mole) and the ruling party Jubilee. campaign was thought for Jubilee was the one sponsoring Namwamba campaign, where he use helicopter to move around all over the strong hold for ODM looking for votes. ODM has established a committee to investigate those chaos while police also have started their parallel investigations. the results for that investigation were not released to the public up to now the root of those who participated in that act of shame has not been known. later Mister Odinga started a plan to bring together those two parties by selecting Namwamba and Zani to be the secretary general of the party. finally, in November he appointed new leaders of the party with Namwamba as the secretary general and Doctor Zani as one of his assistants, another was nominated Senator Miss Elizabeth Ongoro.
T145 19 December 2012 government: we are taking steps of owning coal by Stella Aron. minister for resources and mineral, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, has said that the government is preparing to take steps of owning all coal ore deposits that are in the country. the report provided by that ministry has said Professor Muhogo said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday while talking with workers from Sichuan Hongda, a Chinese company. the workers have visited his office, led by Chinese ambassador in the country, Mister Lu Youqing so that they discus several issues that touches the energy sector in the country, including the Mchuchuma Coal project. during the discussion, Ambassador Youqing disclosed that, in that project Sichuan Hongda company expects to produce 600 megawatts of electricity, among them, 400 megawatt will be fixed in the national grid by 2018 and 200 megawatts to run the machines. on his side, Professor Muhongo said all strategic minerals including coal are supposed to be under government's possession so as to govern its extraction and business for the benefit of Tanzanians. "if all the procedures are complete and the government gains possession of mineral reserves, it will be able to control various problems arising in this sector including the one for the owners of regions with the mineral ore withholding them for a very long time waiting for partnership and other investors to come in or sell them outside the country," he said. he said that the situation contributes to keen people with an intention of investing in those areas to fail to do so due to lack of space therefore delay development for citizens. according to that report, Professor Muhongo directed the power company in the country (TANESCO), to discuss with the company so that the project starts immediately. he added that the project has taken a long time without any success and it is therefore time for Tanzanians to see the project being implemented so that they benefit from its fruits. "I have also directed TANESCO to hold talks with this company about the construction of infrastructure to transport electricity from Mchuchuma to Mbeya. "the issue of electricity generation must go in line with betterment of transportation and supply infrastructure in order to get positive results," said Professor Muhongo.
T144 Tanzania and China to strengthen relations Tanzania and China to continue to strengthen relations in various sectors including of politics, economy, and culture. a recent working visit by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African cooperation, Doctor Aziz Mlima, this at the invitation of the ministry of foreign affairs of that country has the objective of strengthening relations between Tanzania and China in various sectors. in that visit, Doctor Mlima together with the Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs of China Mister Zhang Ming, made talks with various government leaders and of big Chinese companies some of whom have already invested in the country and others have shown the intention of investing. furthermore, the Chinese government has emphasized its intention of developing cooperation with Tanzania in the sector of the economy through investment in the sectors of industries, energy, and infrastructure. here the priority being building the port of Bagamoyo, together with the improvement of the TAZARA railway and it's ready to start a true analysis of the central railway. on the side of the construction of Bagamoyo port, the Chinese company of Merchant Holding International (CMHI) which has entered into a partnership with the government of Tanzania and the pocket of Oman to build that port from the first part which will be complete this year. in the same way, the Chinese government has made it clear that it has set aside money for the construction of enabling infrastructures like roads, energy, and electricity, water, and ICT. about TAZARA the Chinese government has said it's satisfied and it will work on the talks of experts which happened in Dar es Salaam City recently and promised to continue giving that railway a priority because it carries the history of its relations with Africa, and gave money through agreement of 16 for the reason of big improvements of that railway's infrastructure, this together with participating fully in the meetings that would follow that aim at the best way of driving that railway with the participation of Tanzania and Zambia.
T147 West Africa awed by the Swahili culture shown by Diamond in the video 'I say to you, I say to you' African culture the video shows the culture of a Swahili from the coast who has inherited many things from the Arabs. these are the things that Africa and the whole world have learned from colonial history. through the video and his song, Diamond has given fans in Nigeria, Ghana, South Africa and other countries outside of East Africa, the true picture of a Swahili's way of life. Taarab and Mduara are songs with Tanzania origins and therefore a song such as 'I say to you' represents what we can proudly call Tanzanian music. the act of incorporating the country's media queen Khadija Kopa, has added great value to the song. not forgetting to mention that Khadija Kopa and Hanscana have been placed where now the eye of Africa is seeing them. these are new concepts for countries like Nigeria and Ghana. these are things that their artists do not give them because it is not their culture. that's why as well as not understanding Kiswahili they are still drawn to the video and the song because they are listening to new tunes and seeing different pictures. "I don't understand a single word but Diamond is honestly as his name says." loyal fan from Namibia. "#teamdiamond," wrote Rauha Vroutjie. yesterday Diamond's name was successful in attaining the first position on the trend topics on Twitter's website just a few hours after releasing the video. for a Tanzanian artist to to trend in Lagos, Nigeria is not a common thing, it's great. Diamond has crossed the point of being a famous artist in Tanzania alone and has become a popular artist in Africa. if he lands in Luanda, Angola or Gaborone, Botswana, without doubt many will recognize his face. the part he has reached, he has the ability to do any song and Africa will understand him. creating a song with Tanzanian flavor is the best decision he has made. therefore the emphasis I would like to make here is that we cannot intimidate the Nigerians who are currently the champions of music in Africa, if we imitate their music and give them the same flavor as given by their artists. they can not be shocked consider this example. if you are a resident of Bukoba and you've come to visit your brother in Dar es Salaam, then bananas being the only food that he gives you, how would you feel? you have left bananas filled to the brim in Bukoba only to come to Dar and get served bananas again? ponder. therefore artists who are lucky to associate with great artists from Nigerian or South Africa, in order for their collaboration to be seen to be meaningful they need to create songs with Tanzanian flavor so as to give a different tune to the lovers of that music. for those artists who have had the luck of acquiring big names, if they want to be taken seriously they should make sure they compose songs in universal genres which include Hip Hop, R&B or Pop they should compose songs with original Tanzanian flavor, namely Bongo Flava. if a Tanzanian does Kwaito or Nigerian music I feel that he would not get anywhere.
T146 khanga is the national garment written by Angela Semaya, Dodoma. published: 7 September 2016 the Minister for news, culture, art, and sports, Nape Nnauye has said if the national garment process would have continued, it was heading to the finding of the garment of a leader different from expectation. in avoiding that, the government gave an appeal the khanga dress be used to identify as a national dress after being seen to be liked to be used by many people. Nape spoke in the parliament yesterday that Tanzania has 126 tribes in which each tribe has its own culture and code of dressing and that during the process, the government concluded that it will adopt a common garment rather than a national garment. "the committee was formulated and the process begun, but Tanzania has 126 tribes later we discovered that we would end up having a leader's dress instead of the national garment... but in the process the khanga was popular and worn by many thus it was selected and given the identity of the national garment. "even other nations did a process, they liked a certain outfit and made it public," he said. Minister Nape was responding to the additional question by the special seat parliamentarian Mary Mwanjelwa (CCM), who wished to know how the process of selecting a national garment was finalized. in another step, Minister Nape called on the community to refuse acts of breaking morals that are being done by artists if together with wearing clothes that have no honor. he said artists are in the community and so every community member should participate and encourage artists to focus on values. "artists stay in our community, if society refuses to accept their behavior, they will stop but if they applaud what the artists do then they will see no problem in that," she said. previously in the primary question, Mwanjelwa said the musicians have been wearing indecent clothes or sometimes a woman's dignity is severely oppressed as a result of wearing clothes that reveal their body shapes and she wanted to know what was the government's plan to control such dressing. responding to this fundamental question, Nape said the government has been taking disciplinary and legal measures on artists including fining and jailing those who violate ethics by dressing or designing artifacts that violate a woman's personality. he said starting from the year 2014/2015 until now, three female artists and one male artist in addition to one group of caravan people were given a warning and others were completely closed for humiliating the dignity of a woman. in addition, he said in 2016/2017 that one male artist was given a warning and fined. he called on every Tanzanian to ensure in one way or another, they maintain and protect the values and customs of the Tanzanian people.
T141 a huge explosion accompanied by fire has occurred in a factory that manufactures weapons based in Khartoum Sudan . minister of culture and information of Sudan Ahmed Bilal Osman has accused Israel for making that attack on Yarmouk factory . however the government of Israel has not yet spoken out anything related to accusations of Sudan . no one died in that explosion although Sudanese government officials have described to the country's media that several people have been affected following inhalation of smoke caused by that blast .
T140 China discovers a rock of minerals in the moon. by Leonard Onyango. the Chinese Sky Research Institute has found proof about the presence of a huge rock made of minerals in the moon. that discovery published in the Nature Communications newspaper was revealed after an equipment known as Chang'e 3 sent photos showing the rock. "the photos received from the Chang'e 3 equipment show a huge rock that is in a dark area," said the researcher of planet issues from China University, Zongcheng Ling. the equipment of Chang'e 3 has been in the moon since it arrived in the year 2013. already China has released another equipment known as Chang'e 4 that is expected to land on the moon in the year 2018. previously, the Chang'e 4 equipment was programmed to arrive on the moon in the year 2020 but Zongcheng says that it will arrive two years earlier, different to how it was thought. "despite the moon being close to the earth where we live, there are still many things that we do not understand," says Zongcheng. in the recent years, China has been seen putting emphasis on research of the moon while America focuses on the distant planets like Mars and Pluto. that discovery agrees with previous researches which hint on the presence of rocks in the moon. researchers said that the rock is found at an area which is believed to have been a huge pool of water. according to those researchers, that pool is the one that appears like a person standing when you look at the moon. how the moon reduces the rain: new research has shown that when the moon is up in the sky at night, its weight can reduce the amount of rain on earth. the results published in the Geophysical Research Letters magazine by researchers from Washington University, America show that, when the moon is up (illuminating the crown), its weight reduces the amount of humidity in the surrounding air. researchers Tsubasa Kohyama and John Wallace who did that research say that the reduction of the humidity reduces the amount that rains. the researchers made that report after analyzing data and the rain trends collected by National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) of America and the Japanese one (JAEA) between the year 1998 and 2012. Kohyama and Wallace clarified that the weight of the moon when up reduces the amount of rain by one percent. "what we understand is that this is the first research involving the moon's pressure and the rain," said Tsubasa Kohyama, a postgraduate student in the science of climatic issues. however, those researchers say that the condition changes from time to time. "even though there are no effects on agriculture, this discovery is important in helping scientists conduct more research related to the behavior of climate conditions," said Kohyama. in the year 1847, scientists discovered that the moon's rotations affects the obstruction of air in the sky. in the year 1932, researchers revealed that the obstruction of air affects heat in the air too. in the year 2014, researchers from Washington University confirmed that the pressure on earth changes according to the moon's rotation. researchers now say that they are targeting to study if the moon's rotations contribute to rains accompanied by thunderstorms.
T143 published: Wed, Jun 1st, 2016 what makes you move from your environment? if I don't understand what you are saying and understand what you mean, then every time, we will problems. we won't be able to get a good platform of us together to meet and discuss challenges that we meet together, that confront us in our communication. this is one of many challenges. we don't understand each other, at other times language is really really hard not only abroad, even here at home, people can speak until their color changes but there is no agreement. and many times all these are as a result of individualism. and individualism is a result of upbringing. if it is your characteristic, upbringing will rub it in and give you a base and guideline of life to help you and to enable you to fight that self. it's like religion in the society, one job that it has taken is the development of communal work, now everything you leave to the Almighty to help you and give you strength. this system of helping you personally and you to be able to help the society has come from where and in what language that has been brought is foreign culture and our traditions. in our original upbringing or those cultures and traditions of these sides, individualism is something that isn't in our upbringing. humanity is something that was one of the pillars of the community. we have come here to look for life. many of us never understood language, culture, and traditions of this place or to understand the life here before coming, it has been explained to them by someone or people. by bad luck or good, to be explained to is not like seeing and having a personal experience. what makes you move from the environment you are used to and go to another far country and you don't understand culture or tradition, it's selfish. here you meet a very different environment more than there where you came from, crops and until the weather is different. the food, smell, the clothes they wear or how they wear them, northern Europe abroad is different. when the cold season comes and the whole country is under ice, just keep wondering at how different the environment is and how the coldness hits you, there is no single day when you will be prepared for an environment like this. first just how darkness covers like a mat this part of the world and continues in that condition until the third month from the month of 10. two thirty is already dark and the day breaks at two thirty or nine o'clock in the morning. it's nearly six hours only that you get the sunshine (if it will come out). this condition continues starting the month of 10 until the third month. after those months, the day breaks at four o'clock in the afternoon and for 17 hours and ends at nine o'clock at night until the tenth month. don't think that, this comes once just like how you switch on and switch off light. it comes step by step until at the peak which is the month of June 21 and 22 which is known as the middle of the hot season (midsummer). slowly, after that darkness returns until the days of the sun become few and darkness rules to reach the peak of darkness whereby you get just a few hours of sunshine on December 12. December 21 or 22 and sunshine slowly returns until the peak again of June. that is the condition of our lives here abroad. northern Europe celebrates twelve days of the cold season. those days are called "Julhelg" which are like four days among those we call Christmas. culture and traditions of northern Europe in their homes they put a Christmas tree, Christmas flowers. all this are as a result of their old culture and traditions before Christ and they included them in religion. it was brought to us and we copied without knowing from whence it came. we go to celebrate "Christmas" but they are cultures and traditions of Europe which were there before the Christian faith.
T142 the ministry of communication receives equipment worth more than 20 million shillings from the Chinese Embassy in the country the Chinese Embassy in the country has given the ministry of communication, Culture, Art and Sports office equipment worth more than 20 million shillings to enhance the existing relationship between the two governments. the step has come with an intention of helping to grow the art sector which in the government's five year development plan is required to increase employment and the gross domestic product through several artistic work. speaking during the presentation of the equipment in Dar es Salaam City, assistant secretary for ministry of communication, culture, art and sports Mister Petro Lyatuu thanked the embassy for their contribution to ensure the art sector grows and brings change in the country. "we thank the Chinese Embassy for giving us this equipment which will help a lot in the performance of the art sector that is growing at a fast rate in the country and to help grow the good relationship between our government and the China," said Mister Petro Lyatuu. on his part the advisor for cultural issues from the embassy Mister Gao Wei has said that China will keep on giving cooperation to the Ministry in growing of art by giving various kinds of assistance as is needed. "we will continue with this partnership not only in equipment donation but also in exchanging experience and expertise in art so that this sector grows and be respected and known officially as employment" said Mister Gao. on her side, the assistant director in the Ministry of art development Missus Leah Kihimbi has said that the equipment will improve the doing of work in the art sector putting in mine that it is a sector that carries a vast responsibility in spreading art in and out of the country. the equipment given by the Chinese embassy included 4 computers, 1 laptop, one video camera and television all worth more than 20 million.
T94 in the second part we look at what has occurred in the coastal region of Kenya where in Mombasa the lovers of R_and_B music are expecting this weekend to be of great entertainment because a very famous American artist among some of his fans in the company of his counterpart from the African continent will entertain they have -- ahh those fans in the region . there -- let's listen to the music a little bit from -- this artist who is Chris Brown from here in the United States then we join with our colleague in Mombasa Liberty Adede . <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> yeah . it is the voice of the musician Chris Brown a native here in the United States who is touring the African continent particularly in the region of -- Coast of Kenya . and today in the morning our Mombasa correspondent has brought us report -- Liberty Adede about that tour . Liberty you are on phone . first of all tell us where he is holding this event or where is he performing his music and who is accompanying him and then address the challenges and benefits that arise . ahh (()) thank you very much Mombasa for this opportunity we are partying and dancing this weekend as the Tanzanians say . partying and dancing because Chris Brown is expected in Kenya and specifically in Mombasa town . though till now he is yet to arrive . we checked on the page of -- or on his Twitter page he showed us that already his private jet is ready we were expecting him here in Kenya but until now he is yet to arrive . though we have been proven to and assured that he will be present for the performance show here tomorrow at the grounds known as Mombasa Golf Club which is near the beach in the area of -- of -- of Mombasa island . Chris Brown is expected to perform there come tomorrow in the company of the musician from -- from Nigeria Wizkid . then again there is also the legendary artist like the one from Tanzania Ali Kiba . there are artists from Uganda like artist such as Bebe Cool will be coming to Kenya together with Vanessa Mdee an artist from Tanzania among other artists like Nazizi of here in Kenya Jua Cali and the likes of Susumila who are -- are based here in the Coastal area . and everyone is set people are prepared with all sorts of excitement %incomplete yeah yeah . and in the course of preparation Dede the issue that has also arisen there are those who say would really like to attend that music festival but the cost is high . and this is a report that some of -- the Kenyans that you talked to we will play for our listeners to get to hear what some say about that situation . why don't you do important things sir ? that to see someone ? if I get an opportunity to go I will go . but not that I pay my ten thousand shillings to go and see someone . I better use that money to do other important activities . if I try to estimate paying ten thousand to only see a musician who stands at the stage for minutes -- maybe for ten minutes and he will sing songs that have been recorded it won't be live . what can you do with ten thousand shillings you Kenyan youth ? I will pay with it rent . according to me I perceive he is wasting my time to entertain his inner self . even if it is ten thousand shillings it is very nice on the surface . the situation is for the reds . but he eats other foods such as chicken fish any sea food . your native is Coast . will you prepare a coastal dish for him ? he must test our dishes . yesterday I went to Marikiti went to -- to buy some few commodities and also show him our dishes . as a Kenyan first I'm very happy that's why I also accepted this work now Adede we have -- I hear we've got only one minute . let's finish by explaining are those with this perception the majority of Kenyans or the just a few of them but will many Kenyans be able to attend ? B_M_J are the majority . as the saying trending in Kenya goes some people are eating meat while others are salivating or as others desire so these are the majority the penniless . but I am trying tirelessly together with the chief or -- or -- or senior editor who supervisors the department of V_O_A who is based in this area to examine and get to know if we will be able to attend this show which is a big showdown as they say themselves to be able to attain . but many Kenyans are saying I count my money one two three to ten ? I better go pay fees or pay rent or initiate a development project .
T48 JPM disappointed conflicts of local government written by Mugini Jacob, Musoma published: 24 September 2016 President John Magufuli has urged provincial and district heads to avoid bringing unnecessary conflicts in their councils, while ordering local governments to cooperate with those leaders to manage development finances. Daktari Magufuli gave those orders at Musoma town Mara province the day before yesterday, in the speech, which was read on his behalf by the Minister of the Country, Office of the President Provincial Administration and Local Government (TAMISEMI), George Simbachawene when he was opening the 32nd General Meeting of the Local Administration Community (ALAT). the President emphasized that provincial and District leaders are the executives of the National Government in their areas, therefore there is no reason for local government leaders to avoid involving them in bringing development to the citizens. he said, the government will continue taking strong actions, executives who shall be identified to be misusing public funds and he wanted local government leaders to implement the promises they made to citizens during the last General Election. initially, Vice chairperson of ALAT, Stephen Mhapa, congratulated the Fifth Term Government for providing free education and promised to support those efforts. that Meeting continued yesterday.
T95 number of Ebola patients in Liberia declines by AFP Ebola Geneva, Switzerland the rate of new Ebola infection appears to decline in Liberia, but the tragedy still exists, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Wednesday. "although the disease is still a threat to life in Liberia, infectious levels are decreasing," WHO Deputy Director Bruce Aylward told reporters in Geneva. "there is a sign that states affected by this disease they can withdraw from this tragedy," he said. Aylward was quick to add that his statement might be misinterpreted and some people begin to think that Ebola has been controlled in Liberia. he said such a concept should not exist as originally the infections decreased but increased after several days. Wednesday next week WHO will publish the number of deaths caused by Ebola epidemics which has affecting some West African countries while the number is expected to be over 5,000 people. Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone nations are the most affected. at the same time, the United States has ordered its army to return to home from West Africa be quarantined for 21 days. this is happening as the United States struggles with preventing the spread of Ebola. with AFP the action has led to the division between the US forces and other government agencies while the impression is that military forces have more strict conditions than those entrusted to health workers. Aylward said cases of Ebola infection have increased to 13 703 from 10,000 cases reported by WHO on Saturday. but he stressed that the increase was due to the inclusion in the figure of the number of cases which had previously been reported. high number of deaths was reported in three states affected by the tragedy. Liberia witnessed 6,535 cases, Sierra Leone had 5,235 cases and Guinea, where the disease occurred at the end of last year testified to 1,906 cases, he said. in neighboring Mali, where a two-year-old girl died from Ebola after a bus ride from Guinea, any new infections have not been detected, he added. Aylward said that data from different sources- including groups for organizing burial and medical centers, showed that the number of people being admitted to hospital for Ebola infection is declining in various parts of Liberia.
T96 <no-speech> <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> really I personally have my hit my friend . yourself ? I have made a big hit song . come on my friend . a hit song you dance . a big hit song . give me a taste of it . <no-speech> this guy . give me some lines . it's a big hit song a shocker . you . I have given it featuring this guy . who ? a big hit song a shocker . stop my friend Hilary . a big hit song . let the lines flow now . let the lines flow . a big hit song a shocker . <no-speech> now (()) have you heard ? okay fine sing . have you understood me ? give me . a big hit song a dance let me show you . no don't leave the battery for -- for (()) I am clean . ahh clean . you see -- you see they are clean today ? do you see me cutting ? ahh . <misc> <misc> yesterday your friend whom you live with in the neighborhood . who Okete ? yes what's the name of the dark one ? Okete . the darkish one . yes that guy was yesterday beaten . wah . (()) . my mother . I don't know where he comes from . he was beaten and fined on top . my mother -- my mother you're joking with people . wait you mean he was beaten and fined on top ? yes and it was not at -- at once . it is frequent . (()) is listening to the story . are they paining you ? <no-speech> my friend why can't you listen to things ? ahh this guy is spoiling my mood here . <no-speech> I believe we're talking about problems here do you know I am -- for now I am -- do you know the group I sing for ? do you know which music group I sing for ? are you therefore trying to fight me ? do you know which music group I sing for . what label do you see on this cap ? you clearly tell me are you fighting me ? are you fighting me ? are you fighting me ? I am disciplining you . have some manners . <no-speech> I touched this lady yes will you be there . what are you talking about ? what ? what are you saying . what are you saying ? let me teach him some manners -- wait let me teach him some manners my brother . . all of them even this one . I will smash you I am not like him . ohh . take your cap and leave . I will beat you . they have seen a hot song -- they have seen a hot song and they are pretending that -- that they are calling (()) . which hot song ? I am composing a hot song go away fellow . <no-speech> leave -- leave -- leave -- leave you're making noise for no reason . (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) the way he fights and says that he is -- look . I will slap you . do you know which company I sing for ? vamoose -- vamoose go mister . <no-speech> we know your manners -- we know your manners . I should exchange your (()) . we know your manners . (()) go away . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech>
T97 parents take your children to be treated for spinal bifida. written by Magnus Mahenge. published: 31st October 2016. specialist doctors from the orthopedic institute (MOI) have decided to camp in various regions in the country to provide hydrocephalus and spina bifida surgery services. there is a big problem of children suffering hydrocephalus and spina bifida in the country, due to the fact that a study conducted by the MOI institute in 2002 indicates that approximately 4,800 babies are born with the problem. it is only one out of eight among them that is 500 to 600 who are taken to hospital for treatment. due to the magnitude of the problem, those doctors have camped in over 16 regions, where they have performed surgeries in 18 children in Mbeya, 12 in Morogoro, 50 in Mwanza, 14 in Iringa and they have already saved more than 185 children and continuing with these camps and surgical services in other regions. doctors are offering that service for free, but surprisingly parents with children affected by big heads and open backs, are either illiterate, afraid of the cost or do not want to take the children to see those doctors. the Executive Director of the institute for orthopedic surgery, brain surgery and atomic surgery (MOI), Doctor Othmani Kiloloma said they have decided to set up those camps near the people to deal with that problem. together with the efforts of the few doctors about seven in the whole country, six are in MOI and one in Bugando, still, citizens with children with that disease don't want to use that opportunity that brought that service closer, they continue to stall. the action of the children's parents not to be enthusiastic about this rare opportunity by the doctors bringing that service closer, is what has made me write a thought in order to encourage parents to be enthusiastic about the services that are offered for free. the parents' lack of enthusiasm towards the opportunity, makes the children continue being disturbed since still, the problems of open backs that are caused by the system of neurological vessels not to work well and big heads is a result of the system of water accumulation in the head to have problems, continue to occur in the country. parents are urged not to be afraid of taking the children to access these services since, it is a rare and important opportunity to save them, instead of continuing to hide them at home, while that disease is curable. Chief Executive Officer of MOI, Doctor Kiloloma, urges parents to go get the services in regional hospital centers that provide child care services free of charge, as it is expensive to get such services elsewhere in distant places. Doctor Kiloloma says, parents with sick children, are wanted to use that opportunity being offered for free because they could not have paid for the treatment cost of about 700,000 shillings to one million shillings. Communications Officer of GSM Funds, Akhalfan Kiwamba said they recognize the problems of the children and decided to make a donation so that they could be operated on. they are required to use the sponsorship opportunity by the GSM Fund to reach the camp and access the children services being offered for free. it is the citizens' responsibility to closely monitor those services and to go to provinces whose programs have not been reached. they have already set up camps in Mwanza province on April 27th to 30th, Shinyanga on May 2nd to 4th, Singida on May 6th to 8th, Dodoma on 10th to 13th, Morogoro on May 15th to 17th and the program is continuing to Zanzibar.
T213 Mzumbe celebrates the union by eating with the orphans Rashid Mkwinda the students of the University of Mzumbe of Mbeya today during the day joined with Tanzanians to celebrate the great day of reunion to provide relief to the community that takes care of orphans in the center of 'Malezi ya Huruma' that is in Simike, Mbeya city. the aid of clothes, food, soap and cooking fat together with cash worth 3 million shillings that is from the contribution from the staff of that university together with the lecturers and students and some friends whose aim is to connect with the orphaned children in maintaining unity, brotherhood and solidarity together with the children that live in dangerous environment. while speaking about that aid, the Head of that university, Professor Ernest Kihanga, said that they got that idea and saw the importance to involve that importance to the nation of Tanzania by engaging the community of people that lives in dangerous environment and to see the importance of visiting children that are being taken care in that center to provide what they have. Professor Kihanga said that day has been very important to Tanzanians due to its history of fulfilling the 50 years of the union whereby there was a lot challenges and there was different problems socially and because of cooperating with orphaned children it will built a history which will have a big memory to these children because of the union of our countries. "this will remain in the heads of these children, they will remember this important day of today which went together with the aid the we provided to them," he said. and the Assistant lecturer of that University, John Stephen said that the teachers together with the students of that university sat together and saw the importance of cooperating with residents that live in dangerous environment so as to celebrate together with them on that day. "we are part of the community, we are joining with these children so that they can see we are part of the community that is happy without caring about our difference in life within one group or the other," said Stephen who is also an independent lawyer. on her side, Neema Mwalyagile who is also the Assistant Lecturer of that University said that the people of the same sex with different life they have a chance to know the history of the coalition between Tanganyika and Zanzibar and by using this important day so that those children will remain with that memory for many years. Ladislaus Rwekaza is the Assistant Lecturer of that university who also called on the society to see the importance of honoring that day of the union by doing social things, whereby the Minister of Health of the Government of students of that university, Gift Segumba wanted the society and government and private institutions to see the importance of helping families of people that live in a dangerous environment. while speaking at that time, as she received that aid, the Care provider of that center of Huruma of Simike that has a total of 120 Children, Anna Kasile said that she has received the aid at the appropriate time because there were some students of Sumbawanga Secondary school that are being taken care of that center and were sent away because they lacked school fees. she said that she deals with a lot of challenges of operating that center and even though the society especially the students of the universities that are in Mbeya city have been coming out time to time to help in one way or another by providing assistance of status and property. "these children are taken care by God himself, there are sometimes when we think what are we going to eat that day but a miracle happens and good Samaritans comes in and provides us with the assistance of clothes, food, soap, educational materials and money" she said that they have a small baby in that center of four months who was found, thrown away and the eldest is a student who is in the university whereby some of them passed through this center are civil servants in the government.
T90 that's why I'm -- to give birth to twins from which I surely will get a female child . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> why are you stammering as if you are afraid to even talk Isper and how are the markets here ? I have %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . I have a husband . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> there in Kavume ? mm . <no-speech> I am with a man here . <no-speech> English man . I am requesting -- I am requesting then you search one for me . <no-speech> <no-speech> English man . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> white . <no-speech> he is Indian ? <no-speech> white person . no . I request you then you search one for me . Indian you will tell me Ali . <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm at the sea side . mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I am in Mombasa . <no-speech> <no-speech> are you on the side of the sea ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> and your child ? <no-speech> ahh . he went %incomplete are you with your child ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> where is he you have your child there means -- means you have your child there ? <no-speech> I am not with him here I left him in Nairobi . <no-speech> mm even you are really enjoying yourself and you have left him in Nairobi . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) . you mister enjoy yourself now whom will you enjoy yourself with and I am not there -- we could have united together . <no-speech> okay . lets see each when you come back to Nairobi . <no-speech> <no-speech> okay ? okay but remember to bring me goodies . <no-speech> <no-speech> I will bring you .
T199 <no-speech> <no-speech> and that -- that -- that Fiona where did she go ? that girl of his . <no-speech> and -- who is that one ? <no-speech> Fiona . she didn't give birth ? <no-speech> ahh not yet she expects to give birth in the month of October . <no-speech> ohh . therefore we are seeing a child ? ahh a must . <no-speech> he will have whose color ? <no-speech> he will be black like this %incomplete really the mother's . <no-speech> he must have the mother's color . mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> does he look like a dictator ? <no-speech> ahh absolutely . <no-speech> alright we will just wait and see . if he comes today we'll go look at him and take milk like this %incomplete <no-speech> ahh you must -- you all must come . <no-speech> there are many . <no-speech> mm true . <no-speech> we were you wanted to first go to Embu %incomplete <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm let's look . <no-speech> (()) he is there . <no-speech> ahh true we will plan . <no-speech> he can be there ? <no-speech> we will arrange for a day for us to go . <no-speech> and how is Oscar faring on however ? <no-speech> who is that ?
T91 predecessors
T43 leaders smart in suit, hooligans in thoughts August 15, 2013 back then I once wrote an article by starting with a question that I will review it here as follows: so we are bewitched? how can it be that we haven't been bewitched but if we have bewitched ourselves? or is it possible that we have been bewitched and the one who charmed us was bewitched and died? (they claim that if the person who cast a spell on you dies then you cannot heal). they are 'silly' questions but they are raise basic emotions considering the trend of our nation currently. I don't know what God should give us. he has blessed us with a peaceful and loving country for couple of years. he gave us Father of the Nation, teacher Nyerere who despite urging for unity among ourselves as Tanzanians, he also fought for unity of the African continent. Nyerere knew much earlier that it is easy for a country with over 120 tribes to be in pieces if not held together with an ideology that makes us united. he encouraged politics of socialism that primarily focused on eliminating classes and theoretical and realistic differences, for all of us to remain as Tanzanians. God has also granted us a country with a lot of resources, riches that even the wealthiest nations of the world wish it could be in their countries. in a totally disrupting environment, efforts made by Nyerere to unite us began being violated immediately after he relinquished power. the party that he founded of CCM, turned against him through Zanzibar's resolution, 'hooliganism' that proclaimed the death of socialism tradition. since that time, the country seems as though 'bewitched'. we are not in colonialism (since every CMM's manifesto says Tanzania is a country that abides by the principles of the politics of socialism and being independent) and our constitution confirms that. we are not on socialism, because every foundation that has excelled, that tradition has been disregarded. with our numerous resources, we have continued to be the poorest country in the world. instead of being a market of products emanating from our wealth, we have become notorious beggars while our leaders without a shame, dare to openly say that if we do not foreign trips, we will not get development. okay, continuous trips abroad have succeeded in bringing leaders of the greatest nations of the world, President Xi Jinping of China and later on 'president of the world' Barack Obama of America. as usual, our leaders walked majestically and bragged that "our country has now made progress that is why important leaders of the world are visiting us." it's true, the tours by Presidents Jinping and Obama were successful in placing Tanzania on the global map (to market us well across the world). I remember during the visit by President Obama, a report by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) noted that Tanzania is one of the countries with the fastest growing economy in the world. who could dispute yet the Chinese and Americans are outwitting each other to tour our country? but as if a spell has been cast on us, just a few days after Obama's visit, news emerged that there was corruption involving billions of shillings in the preparation of Smart Partnership conference that brought together several African presidents. does it make sense that just the preparation of Smart Partnership meeting stirs corruption of billions of shillings before the actual plan begins to be implemented? I once wrote that while Obama is wrestling with his good thoughts of donating American dollars to us, corrupt individuals on their side are anxiously preparing their pockets to grab the funds. the extortion of funds for preparation of that conference is like just the 'beginning', the actual show is still waiting for funds to start trickling. as if that's not enough, a few days after Obama's visit, the name of our country started trending again at the international platform, this time on the business of drug tracking. for sure, you cannot be surprised with someone who believes that we maybe have been bewitched because despite being very lucky for our name to be heard for good reasons across almost all the corners of the world following Obama's visit, we have deliberately spoiled that merit. it's just like Obama's crippled decision to ignore the gross violation of human rights in Tanzania, was a permission for the state organs and criminals (at times it is difficult to differentiate between a state organ and criminals) to continue risking the safety of the Tanzanians. we have continued to witness various incidences that continue to soil our country, locally and internationally. from an incomprehensible standpoint, the police force that isn't ashamed to be seen working for the ruling party CCM to oppress the opposition, emerged with a dangerous strategy of 'disrupting' terrorism cases against opposition politicians. it is only a bewitched nation that can joke with terrorism. that is why recently, Judge Simon Lukelelwa gave a strict warning about 'joking with terrorism' when giving judgement in a case dealing with several leaders of Chadema in Tabora.
T92 <no-speech> the wife of the president Mama Salma Kikwete has rebuked men who have the behavior of oppressing and abandoning their wives when they suffer from fistula disease . let's get more news . <no-speech> she gave that rebuke when she launched the awareness campaign for fistula treatment that is being run in jointly between the ministry of health and the hospital for the blind C_C_B_R_T . <no-speech> she said women who suffer from that disease need help in the community including enabling them to get treatment services because that disease is treatable . <no-speech> the wife of the president said that between two thousand five hundred and three thousand women get the fistula problem every year whereby the number of patients are thirty-one thousand women in total in the whole country . ministry if the ministry has true intent C_C_B_R_T too has true intentions at ensuring that the problem of fistula is removed and completely finished . <no-speech> the effects of fistula are together with a patient losing an infant and being unable to control short and long calls which usually pass through one way . on his part the board Chairman of the C_C_B_R_T hospital Doctor Wilbroad Slaa has urged the community to support those campaigns in order to protect the lives of women and children . fistula doesn't kill like Malaria . <no-speech> fistula doesn't kill like other outbreak diseases but it's good we know that there is death of the body and there is death of self-respect and status of a human being . from Dar es Salaam Beatrice Eric Channel Ten .
T89 now ahh the biggest thing first I would like to know their story . the good thing is that their history and me are similar but then I have to look at the votes to see who that total will -- to produce history . eh Tina or is it Regina . now look at Regina . ahh Regina please bring your history of -- of you as you before we go into these films . maybe it is -- let me start by saying that we were born in the year eighty -- eighty two in Mara province . we are Kurias <foreign> but there is no war here . <foreign> we are six in our family on the mothers side you know Kurias marry many wives . mmhm therefore on our mother's side we are six and we are not the only twins there are other twins there mmhm in our family . and then we found a primary school right there in Musoma but thereafter we moved to Morogoro for high school . that is what we did and then we went to colleges a bit in Kongororo and then we went and moved to Dar es Salaam where we currently live in Dar es Salaam . and this is our home . ahh and how do the two of you stay at home ? at home we are me and him are the owners of the house and then we have our children each one has a child . and how are your children ? they have a difference of two months . Magongo is -- is three years and six months old and his is three years and four months . to understand is they are things that came together . eh yours is how old ? three years and six months . and this is three years and two months -- four . meaning they have a very small difference . it is not that too so when you hear this you see me the same way . eh me too the same way . fine . it was so in reality and %incomplete how was it meaning that you are the one who started is it not ? I am the one who started and it is true I wanted to -- I desired to get a child . mmhm and then it came about . so when it happened or it is because I have found you should also work hard . these months should not pass you should also get eh eh because we are twins we like to do things together . eh his idea which he meets in his mind and he does not tell me again and -- I also meet it I feel in the (()) he feels . therefore in that period we were both ready to get children so say %incomplete and because he is older he has been the first one . when you just get tell me . so that we give each other space the first month -- let us just give each other space for two months and I %incomplete it cannot be man that is God's will . you know you cannot tell when pregnancy comes in eh . eh yeah that is the plan that God granted us . because we love each other he said then -- you know if he had a child alone and I don't have a child there could have been another condition so that it is that -- that I could feel bad at times . but the Almighty God blessed both of us . so you didn't -- you didn't want your fellow to feel bad when you insist on him man work hard this month should not end eh no I did not insist on him like he said it is God's plan and then also I think it is one good thing when you look at the kids the company they give each other sometimes I think that what if the child was one who could he or she play with ? they have themselves come to be like twins . sometimes people ask for example if I have gone with them I have taken them to clinic or we have taken them to clinic -- we have gone to the mall or other different places someone says are theses children twins ? because they have -- and we sometimes dress them in uniform -- yes and so that when you leave you are you are uniform eh yeah . they just see that these uniform all these are twins eh . twins yeah . they say that you are a twin and you have twin babies ? then it is interesting comedy very interesting . and how is it that your lovers don't confuse who is who ? or you just do it to them intentionally that today you want to confuse this eh ? if we -- if we decide to this it is true he might not know . but we don't have to do that stereotype . and you have never ? and we have never . except the first time when we are knowing each other for example when the father to my child came eh at the shop we were meeting for the first time . the second time when he came he found this one . mm he was telling stories with her thinking that it was me but immediately I entered he remained heh . and there you did not tell him that we are two ? I told him but you know someone cannot know if you look that much alike . ahh you have seen . you know telling someone but someone knows they will look alike but he cannot think that you look alike to a confusing extend . and -- and also we don't want them to confuse but I remember the past years Tina was in the kitchen cooking and then her boyfriend came home . so I was the one who opened the door . and then he came straight he wanted to kiss her because he knew it was -- it was me . I told him in-law wait he was so shocked he said mm you know when you look alike and these days differentiating how is it today I told him then you haven't known yet that we look alike . if you look alike ? yeah . so still -- but right now they have known you well ? <no-speech> yeah they know but at times -- like if he finds me seated . you know he has come in unexpectedly and found me seated he must first look mm I went to attack someone else and then we have come automatically when he had come you know for sure mine has come and then you stand rather than leaving and then he starts going why should he keep on getting confused or confusing .
T88 let's not hate prostitutes beyond measure -2 I like prostitutes because they are our fellow societal members but I don't defend prostitution acts. it is good for us to know what our ladies are encountering when they toss themselves into the unofficial and dangerous business to their lives and let me say to even their customers or participants. it is not all prostitutes who are found in just bar areas, but 'Jam N Jea' that I talked of last week, bo is the most surprising one and they are even so many in Dodoma. they do not go to the parliament areas but it is not a secret that the ladies have moved to Dodoma. they are targeting some of the parliamentarians who are not faithful in their marriages and their personalities. also, it is some of those national leaders who shout at the prostitution behavior. there are some employees in offices who have a habit of involving themselves in love affairs with their fellow employees or bosses and even with some of the clients who go there with business intention. it shames the girls to cheapen themselves that much so as to succeed in work. that is also prostitution and there are others whom you can't absolutely suspect. they are women with a respectful appearance. these who commit 'prostitution' in their offices from my experience, I have also seen that when they get married, some of them have been truants to their husbands. that situation oppresses their husbands who thought that, by marrying them they will quieten down instead they are secretly 'heartless'. criminals! their encounters are a lot shocking. I was lucky to meet one lady in the morning near the police station clinging to one man who had given her a lift in his car that morning, taking her to police station for refusing to alight demanding to be paid on claims of having made love with him which was not true. when I asked her she said, "I didn't succeed in getting a client all night long, and when this old man gave me a lift I was forced to change the story that he made love to me and doesn't want to pay me". this is shameful and the trouble of addictive prostitution. there is a college going lady from the province who goes to permitted night club bars in the evening for prostitution so as to get money to sustain herself in life. another one says, she has a sugar daddy or an old lover and even though she is in college, she is forced to sell her body as a result of the need for income. she also says that she doesn't care if that old man has a wife or children, what she cares about is that old man's money. she complains that she doesn't get the college loan but it is instead available to the children of the mighty in government. corruption. it is shocking, I found a young lady in the middle of the night along Mandela road areas walking bare feet in a torn blouse saying. she had been abandoned there by a man who wanted to make love to her without a condom without paying her anything. the trouble of prostitution. this one has a firm stand in safeguarding her life for she said. no without a condom. there's a lady who has one year old twins who got into prostitution after being dumped by the man who impregnated her and her financially unable parents chased her away from home. many prostitutes suffer when they are sick and unable to work. this situation is caused especially as a result of the wavering national economy, low-quality education, a poor past life of the citizens and the growing corruption in our government leaders. lack of basic needs for a family. experience hooker, is a name given to the women who are well versed in this prostitution business without exposing themselves. some of them have rented respectable houses. they usually trap younger guys and even those with certain office positions or businessmen with the aim of living with them in their houses. the guys especially music artistes referred to as 'Mario' as sung by the late Franco Lwanzo Makiadi. those hookers feel happy and proud when they go for an outing in the evening with these young guys looking well dressed. there are also hookers who live through this prostitution business for many years, they instead do not live with even one man, but they alternate several men without their knowledge where each one is given a financial role for her expenses and whoever fails is thrown out of the arena and dumped. the legalization of prostitution, there are some developed countries where the prostitution business is legalized by having special 'buildings' where girls are bred. the owners of this business are registered, pay taxes and medical insurance for the girls, and they have official contracts. those building are called wore houses. my advice, ladies abandon that business 'illegal and dangerous'. leaders and concerned women ministry, put efforts to save our youths instead of running to mete out severe punishment that do not have proper motivation. think about it.
T87 you too ? <no-speech> <no-speech> bring me fermented milk %incomplete ahh . <no-speech> these people even are %incomplete I can't even bring you milk because now you've boarded a plane aren't you obligated to bring me good things from abroad ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you bring that milk which is mixed with blood . <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh no friend . at this time you have no cow also to live of to pierce to buy milk . all cows in Kilifi calved earlier . mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> alright Grace . mm . <no-speech> there are no good things you will have to bring good things to me from abroad such that I'll just be happy when I see them . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . sisters . <no-speech> alright ? mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I have said . <no-speech> alright then young lady . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> good bye . mm mm . <no-speech> but just explain to me well where are you ? because this isn't a Kenyan number truly . <no-speech> not Kenya ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm ? <no-speech> it is Kenyan . it's truly not Kenyan . <no-speech> <no-speech> it's of where ? <no-speech> <no-speech> come now stop arguing stop being childish . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . mmhm ? who is that crying there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it is just children crying here they see cows and they cry . <no-speech> Grace you have many of them I heard it was only one ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh . it is not the neighbors' neighbors find a neighbor's child (()) chasing him . ohh . <no-speech> I thought you gave birth to twins . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> I heard you gave birth to twins . <no-speech> mm mm . <no-speech> do you have the genes ? <no-speech> <no-speech> you have the genes why ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I thought you gave birth to twins . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech>
T86 twin hyp person
T85 Thursday, October 20, 2016 how to teach a child to have good manners. have you ever given someone something they need but have no reason to say, 'thank you'? somebody wrongs you and cannot say, 'sorry', 'forgive me'? there are others even if you do well, saying 'congratulations you have done well' is like punishment and self-denial. these are some behavior that can show how a person who is not a gentleman and can diminish his value in front of the community. gentleness is the way one cares about the feelings of others. to understand what your partner wants, how he feels when you say something, how he feels when you do some things and things like that. there is a phrase that the behavior of children is the shape of their parents. the translation of this phrase is that what a person does, largely comes from what he learnt from his parents. it is saying the gentleness that your child learns depends on how you as a parent puts himself in front of them, in words, in actions and even in behavior. let us look at four important things that you can put into focus when you teach your child the right way. giving thanks giving thanks is to restore the virtue of others. when you are given a good service at a store, for example, it is fair to be thankful even if you really paid for the service. a thankful attitude is learned and we are not born with it. if you want your child to be a person with the ability to recognize the good that others do, it is important to stress the behavior even if it is necessary to set up a compulsory environment. for example, create a permanent routine that compels each participant at home to say, 'thank you'. this culture of gratitude is possible if you personally begin to show an example. thank your spouse in front of your children. thank your children when they do to you that which you like. likewise, remind them to be thankful all the time. commending when someone else does something good, it is gentle to congratulate him. commendation makes the person commended to feel comfortable. teach the child to identify the good things others do and to pronounce the correct words. become an example by giving commendations. seek to recognize the efforts expressed by family members and give sincere commendation. for example, commend your children with the effort they will show in their education. commend your spouse/wife when they do well in front of the children and not be ashamed. encourage your children to build up the habit of commending others. asking for forgiveness and forgiving others mistakes are part of our shortcomings as human beings. but not everyone can be ready to apologize even when he knows he is wrong. they think apologizing is to bringing their status. if you want your child to have the habit of apologizing and forgiving the wrongdoers you are responsible for teaching him. show an example yourself by apologizing before your children. ask your spouse for forgiveness even for small things that you do wrong. ask your children for forgiveness when you find out you have done wrong. force them to ask for forgiveness when they find themselves in a mistake. the fact is, when a child has a tendency to apologize, it is easier to forgive others when he or she is offended. be concerned about others appreciating others is knowing that you cannot be better than others. that does not mean that you are not confidence. no basically when you feel confident it's very easy to appreciate others. you have the responsibility to teach your child how to value other people. start by showing your children how you value them. when they get injured, show care and give a gentle opportunity without delay. when they know that you care about them, they will not have problems about caring for others. remind them of their responsibility to give a gentle opportunity to the people in problems and the ones in pain. by doing so you will build good habits of caring for others. track the Parental Race column every Thursday in the Tanzanian newspaper for such articles. it is written by Christian Bwaya
T84 mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh it's great that it's the government that will rescue us . if you have no money that's your problem . <no-speech> mm mm ? mm ? <no-speech> you see -- you see even this -- even in the by-election he's not being seen ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what is that ? <no-speech> we didn't even go to the by-elections and I can see that you never heard of the by-elections . ohh mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> this happened and you can even hear that they are now doing the election today and we didn't know because we are very busy . we didn't know . <no-speech> mm . we didn't know of such politics and we don't want that nonsensical politics this time round . <no-speech> mm . you never have things of value . it seems so . <no-speech> mmhm ? let's now look for money and do some tenders . of course we have to look for these days . <no-speech> you see he -- it is said (()) %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> yes I hear he says thirty percent .
T83 those who do not join NHIF will not get good service. written by Sifa Lubasi, Dodoma. published on 03 October 2016. senior secretary of the Ministry of Health, Public Welfare, Gender, Elderly and Children, Doctor Ulisubisya Mpoki promised not to give free services to hospital workers who do not join (NHIF). "if the civil servant doesn't have insurance he should pay this amount, do not give free service," he said adding that those service providers shouldn't sabotage the service," he said. he made that statement yesterday in Dodoma town, when the Managing Director of food and drugs authority (TFDA), Hiiti Sillo was handing over a blood testing machine worth 35 million shillings at the Mirembe hospital. he said the availability of that machine, will help reduce congestion of patients at the referral hospital in Dodoma region and Benjamin Mkapa. Tanzania food and drugs authority director, Sillo, said TFDA as well as ensuring quality and safety of food, drugs, cosmetics and medical kits aimed at protecting the health of the citizens, has a system of care and value the community to support development activities. he said every year they have been offering donations or funding different social groups in the community with an aim of creating and developing good relationship. he said, in support of President John Magufuli efforts in making sure all citizens are given heath services effectively and at the right time, they have decided to deliver that machine. Silio said, TFDA in its budget of year 2015/2016, has bought a machine to test blood for 16,500 dollars, equivalent to 35 million shillings. "TFDA recognizes that the health of a human being is a very important pillar in the development of the country, therefore the machine of testing blood in Mirembe Hospital, we believe it will improve the provision of health services to the community the way it is expected," he said. the Chief specialist of Mirembe Hospital, Doctor Erasmas Mndeme, said that machine will enable the patients to get the tests on time. when the patient gets the correct test the doctor will give the correct treatment, we are thankful for that aid, he said.
T82 women in Japan quit love? November 28, 2016 women in Japan quit love? when Ayumi Saito separated with his boyfriend she was aged 22. but the Tokyo resident found an alternative and easy means to fill the emptiness left by her lover. she downloaded a game related to love on her phone and to became part of millions of women in that country who have decided to change their actual love lives into dreams. "I was lonely," says Saito, who is now 31 years old. "Japanese men are shy and are not good in giving women complements. but girls want to hear the words 'I love you'. male friends she found on games such as "Metro PD: Close To You" - which shows a female investigator finding love that completely changes her life while she struggles with robbery - they did everything her former boyfriend never did. "when I am tired at the end of the day before I sleep, I was relieved hearing his tender and sweet voice," she told American press agency CNN. Saito is not a different person. in the year 2014, the sector of love games in Japan was worth 130 million American dollars. in a community in which 44.2 percent of women - almost half of those without partners having an age between 18 and 34 years are still virgins, this sector appears to have gone into deep desire of these people in Japan. the birth of love games the love games started emerging in Japan in 1980. identified by the name "bishoujo" mostly they have had a male main character chasing after a beautiful female character. in the year 1994, a team of female experts in computer languages from gaming company, Koei broke the tradition that was used to and started the first female love game, "Angelique". the game which involves a young girl who is expected to be "the princess of the world" choosing her right lover, was so successful. business lady Nanako Higashi and her husband, Yuzi Tsutani saw an opportunity in this largely profitable business. Japan is the second largest market for cell phone games in the world, with a value of 6.5 billion American dollars, according to Global Games Market Report magazine. between the year 2000 the two started a gaming business, Voltage, for the sake of women. "almost all women have depression," says Higashi. "we wanted to give them something." that came to be a perfect business strategy. today Voltage leads in the world in love games for women.
T81 some of those citizens have congratulated the budget on claims that it has targeted priorities which will rescue citizens economically and combat poverty . they have claimed that the infrastructural priorities of agriculture industries and human resources are important in growing employment and controlling the pricing system and it will therefore reduce the struggles of life . <no-speech> additionally some of the citizens have claimed that the budget hasn't aimed to free the citizen because it has set aside only thirty percent for the purpose of development projects while the other seventy percent has been set side for the purpose of normal expenditures of the government . the budget made me happy because you must built your house according to the ability you have and the best thing is that the honorable minister has explained fully which areas he wants to give a priority to . and I being a person in investment -- I am thankful that he has prioritized the issue of investment because they are the ones who will be paying tax . we can produce -- we are together with very many tax payers that before putting restrictions there are harvests which are in the provinces which are unable to -- to be spread and its results is that the price where they are produced is very little and the price becomes very expensive where they would be expected to reach . so now what results due to its results ? the infrastructure isn't good . on my side I feel it will hurt us the low level people very much due to the reason that they have given a priority to things that do not help us citizens and leaving the low level people sinking . <no-speech> from Dar es Salaam Fred Mwanjala Channel Ten .
T80 police are searching for the owner of the building that killed 14 Nairobi Nairobi Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta has ordered the arrest of the owner of the apartment that collapsed and killed 14 people last week. President Kenyatta also asked residents of the houses near the area to leave because they have been proven unsafe. Kenyan government said the building had no human living permit, so the police asked the owner of the building to surrender after President Kenyatta ordered the arrest. Red Cross society said the death rate has reached 14 people. other 134 injured people were evacuated from the bundles by civilians and handmade crew to do the job. rescuers said they could hear sounds of five people inside the building walls. President Kenyatta visited the area of the incident. last year, Kenyatta ordered a security audit of all buildings in Kenya. the National Construction Authority found 58 percent of buildings in the capital Nairobi are not quality as the Government says some builders violate the law to finalize the construction projects quickly due to the increase in home business. until now the rescue unit still continues to search for people who are alleged to be covered by the remains of the building that collapsed.
T40 London sets history, Elects New Mayor new Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan. London, England. London has elected its first Muslim Mayor, Sadiq Khan from Labour Party. these statements have been confirmed by city election officials. Khan has defeated his rival of Conservative Party, Zac Goldsmith and will take Boris Johnson's position. Khan, a British with Pakistan origin who was contesting for that position with more than two opponents, has succeeded to win the position of mayor by 56.8 percent followed closely by his major competitor, Goldsmith who managed to get 43.2 percent. 45-year-old Sadiq Khan becomes the first Muslim Mayor to lead London in the history of the city. the politician is a defendant of the British exit from the European Union.
T192 when we come back we will start with our second topic of discussion for today . short breaks we are coming back to enter into our second topic that says like this is it bad to get pregnant before marriage ? what is your view ? on my side I do not know maybe I should throw the ball to them so that they can help us . do you mean mother . not bad . it can be bad for what reason ? if you get the way -- you have gotten that kind of pregnancy you find that taking care of that child becomes difficult because that mister was not prepared and the mother was not prepared . we are dropping and picking picking people if they will be here in the station and our topic will continue as usual do not leave . <no-speech> after dropping the gear we have come back again and our topic continues as usual . you find a lady who is not married but has a child . she becomes a bad example in the society . first in her surrounding community what does she teach it ? and how we know humans is that they never lack words . you cannot get pregnant before getting married then people be happy about that matter like it is usual . that matter is not usual even in the Tanzanian morals . for sure in our community those who get pregnant before marriage do not get a bad picture because now many youths that were there do not marry a woman before getting married . there is not even a single day . a lady is supposed to get married then she get a child . so to get a spouse there and the age is catching up you get the urge to have a child . there what do you do ? do you have a person whom you know that it happened that way and the society viewed her with a different eye ? <no-speech> or is there a person here among us that found that he got a woman pregnant or got pregnant before being married ? there are many . and how did the society view you ? the society views them as may be they have become outcast who have given birth before marriage . but another who have become that way she has given birth she has not gotten a spouse but her time has reached of giving birth and she decided to give birth . she has not been viewed badly because she is working and independent -- she is taking good care of her child . secondly on the woman side is how they excuse me they drop more . in the event that even a person wants to marry be it that she has a child there she has given birth outside or at that period before getting married . that way you find that even that person's excitement slightly decreases . that the reason why you find those many of our ladies when we marry them but if you ask the husband you have two children or one child ? then that is every person becomes to be that way -- that way . different from the one you find without child what does she become ? easy to get married and a person to freshly understand her . a child has a word that he says father -- father the time he begins to talk . he misses it (()) . even at time I have experienced one thing that when children are playing they say father will beat you . but the one of (()) misses (()) father will beat you sometimes when playing (()) therefore there is something psychologically that is (()) is greatly missing pardon ? (()) therefore it becomes you who did that thing you commit a sin on very many sides . first you have denied the child his right that he deserves to get to be with a father and the father to be close with him . secondly you have troubled the mother and gave her very big suffering and got her into a very difficult life . that girl -- when she gets pregnant it is not by bad luck there are always intentions to mistake . it's bad luck it's intended that is it results from themselves that is it means when they meet with two people there are always some goals they plan . and when they arrange such -- plans they normally sit we do this and this and this happens . now when it happens that way -- when things like those happen you find a person has not prepared . (()) you find then until we see street children . especially the street children look out for themselves . those their own parents become -- their plans -- they have not fulfilled . why are you telling me that is -- talking about street children but the time you said this you started you sentence and people laughed a little . then he rejected us . no he regretted yes . is something that happened to you yourself or is it something that concerns you ? that is I here personally ? it is how I view my sisters in the neighborhood . that is something that -- what is that needs me more . may be I ask . since -- why is it that -- those who are being criticized more are just the women and the time this pregnancy -- they have formed they are two people . he has no father or mother why husband mother -- how does it become you know many girls -- of today that is in short that is many girls of today that is those moral of the old days have vanished . and he boys also because hey don't we bear everything two people ? that is -- a very big percentage I have seen is like the morals of those old days have disappeared . because the modern girls example like me personally it is possible that when I pass like this there are some signs she shows you completely you will see ahh this girl this . this gives me a bad indication . <no-speech> because a person who understands herself . you are forced slightly -- what you do not talk about . you see ? this is as a person sees you -- it becomes a test . how does it become now -- for us men when you father a child out of marriage that is before marriage before you have not tied the marriage them you father a child how will it affect you or affect that child mother (()) respected ? you know the one who gets affected most is that lady . why ? because you find that she had no plan of getting the pregnancy . <no-speech> now you find that she suffers . may be she has no job . even if she has it does not satisfy her . to bring up her pregnancy until she delivers and bringing up the child . you find that husband dodging . you find that lady -- (()) here her suffering -- goes this way she gets -- cruel words when she turns this way that husband do not want her a person just suffers sitting here in the middle . you find the mother -- is suffering . you see -- you find that woman is the one hurting more than that father . as usual you know some time we change instead of that laughing we go to get the lines . let's go and see her (()) . <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> <no-speech> you see ? I love her more . even me I agree more that her music (()) . we have seen those lines now the topic continues . may be what is that that could happen or at what time for it to happen to avoid this mister people (()) getting pregnancy before marriage so that things go well ? I see on the side of the parents they can provide gender education to their children . when they provide gender education to their children this matter of getting pregnant before marriage can be easily avoided . the men themselves are still in dilemma they are on the cross roads they have no decisions to make . you can tell the father that way to provide gender education and he himself comes back in the middle of the night ? you are the mother may be you have gone to work you come back you are supposed to take care of that family . the father even when you tell them others it's like you are now hitting pestle on the mortar . its possible am very late so mother we will talk or sometimes all are working the child is remaining at home with house girl alone taking care of the children . therefore you find (()) . but let's take time parents to see that we sit with children . let's find enough time to sit with children . let's ensure we talk with their fathers do not pretend that you have many activities that you are not seen there at all . take time to be seen more in your home so that you can talk with your family . there are many issues that father as a father (()) the opportunity to correct each other with the mother and as a mother take the opportunity . not that mother you go to work all the days you are not seen . and there you are working all the days you are not seen . you are maybe seen shortly on Sunday and that causes a lot of damages therefore together with (()) . as usual as people have said (()) . children need -- to start to be taught even when they are still young but the damages of getting pregnant they say have slipped away from them is not true . those children they have planned until it happened . it is true . and for those who would like also to provide comments -- visit our Facebook page there leave your comment and if you want to be one of the people to discuss our topics tomorrow there you will see our schedule of tomorrow where we shall be going to what place . true . and for those who would like to know the topic of tomorrow let's go to the bus stop . how are you Tanzanian welcome into Minibus bus stop and today we are here in Msata . our topic is coming early what opinions do people on the killings of the elephants ? let's enter the estates to hear the opinions of Tanzanians . killing of elephants I take as a very bad deed on (()) . these our fellow poachers . the animals are decreasing as you can see yourself elephants are dying being killed by poachers because the available governance here is -- is bad . we are destroying the tourism attractions . and meaning that we will not be getting tourists in our country . the animals' reserve when its good we get many tourists and large amounts of money enter into our Tanzania . I advice them to stop doing the act if they are doing it . so that we just get and we get the future development . the danger is that animals -- natural resources like indigenous people are diminishing . for example you know fully that elephants that are reproducing are few . <no-speech> after that bus stop what thing continues ? visit the social media websites you log into Facebook you will find us as usual . if you want to watch our program in YouTube write Minibuzz Tanzania and you will watch the whole of our program without problems . for today me and my fellow broadcaster we are done together we say Minibuzz produce your comments .
T483 21 December 2012 Chadema faces upheavals Doctor Slaa's card ownership scandal erupts another one secretary Bavicha claims he is ready to be dismissed the political state inside the party of democracy and development (Chadema), in Tanga province has continued to get complex after the secretary for youth committee for the party Mister Deogratius Kisandu claimed the chairman of the party in the province Mister Saidi Mbweto is used by CCM leaders to sabotage the party. that step results from a big conflict that came up in that party in that province after Mister Mbweto accusing Mister Kisandu for his opinion of wanting the results of 2010 general elections to be annulled since CCM presented two candidates for the presidency position. Mister Kisandu's claims to want those results nullified comes after the Chadema secretary general Doctor Willibrod Slaa admitted possessing a CCM card therefore while vying for presidency in the year 2010, he was still a member of the ruling party. he said as a result of that condition it is clear that CCM presented two presidential candidates who are Doctor Slaa and President Jakaya Kikwete who emerged the winner in the elections. speaking with Majira yesterday, Mister Kisandu said he is ready to be dismissed from Chadema if he will perceived undisciplined for standing for the truth. he said the act of announcing his intentions to vie for presidency in the year 2015 has been a thorn for politicians of that party as well as using some of the groups in order to weaken him politically. "I don't live for pleading for a post, my intention to vie for presidency I know hurts Mister Mbweto, that is why he is being used to spoil my name for it is the plan of God for me to be the president of Tanzania. the means he is using against me shall not succeed and those who say I am a betrayer are the great betrayers," he said. he said the party is in a big conflict and made known that if actions will not be taken, it will fall apart as it happened to CUF and NCCR-revolutionary parties which got a lot of power after joining multi-party systems. "even the chairman of Bavicha nation, Mister John Heche too called me and blamed me for my opinion which I basically wanted the national electoral commission (NEC), to change presidency results for 2010 elections. "CCM presented two candidates according to Mister Nape Nnauye's speech (the NEC secretary for Ethics and Propagation-CCM), I believe if the presidential election is repeated we Chadema shall win," he said. the other day while Mister Mbweto was speaking to the press, he put clear the stand of taking suggestions of taking serious actions against Mister Kisandu for giving opinions of wanting Doctor Slaa to resign for possessing a CCM card. that very time, writer Wilhelm Mulinda reports from Mwanza that, a day after the former candidate for member of parliament on Chadema ticket for Sumvo constituency in that province, in the 2010 general elections Mister Milton Lutabana joined CCM, yesterday he gave 2400 shillings in order to pay for Doctor Slaa his two years membership fee until 2015 for continuing to hold the ruling party's card. Mister Lutabana handed the money to the deputy CCM secretary general, Mister Mwigulu Nchemba so that he hands it to Mister Nnauye and to present it to the district party branch in Karatu district, Arusha province, where Doctor Slaa joined as a member. the fee was given during a special council meeting for CCM, Ilemela district, in that province where Mister Mwigulu was the official guest. Mister Lutabana becomes the first CCM member to pay Doctor Slaa a fee ever since, when Mister Nnauye said that the Chadema secretary possesses the ruling party card and he himself admitting possessing that card where in that meeting, 85 Chadema members differed to CCM.
T218 <no-speech> no I am just around is just small work work . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh it means if at someone you don't mind not right ? <no-speech> no . not with malice . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm now %incomplete <no-speech> say . <no-speech> didn't I -- I had I have told you that he has a cancer disease ? <no-speech> mm . you had explained to me earlier . there earlier . mmhm and you know not mm when people hear cancer disease they usually have a lot of fear right ? <no-speech> <no-speech> let me ask you . <no-speech> now people of his family have run away %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> we remain with him alone %incomplete <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> and then %incomplete <no-speech> hello do you hear me ? hello -- hello . mm . <no-speech> I hear you . <no-speech> on Sunday do you remember me telling you that we are going to sign so that he can be operated on Monday ? <no-speech> mm . yes you explained to me about the seal and you explained to me -- you'll go and that your companion Catherine . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech>
T45 maybe I -- I should return to the same place to get rid of our doubt and particularly my dear Star T_V viewer -- I am defending him can you try to get him to get rid of doubts when we're talking about the matter of ethics we have talked about the issue of transparency here and in it is the issue of honesty in the very same values but there is also the issue of right in values before we go into these taboos how have you brought it for this person to get the truth of the matter and gets his right and he can truly see that I have personally placed this leader and I can remove him anytime when I say get off sir and he gets off according to the procedures of the constitution (()) -- you know -- have you understood my question ? I have understood because when you talk about the issue of transparency it relates so much with when a leader is chosen as a public leader he is first supposed to declare publicly -- yes -- for example to publicly declare the property he has in that period (()) after being elected . to declare the wealth he has the wealth they -- what his wife has or the children who have not attained eighteen years because if they are eighteen then that means that one is independent . therefore this transparency is by law but it is transparency that involves any public leader so that we know his interests do not conflict public interests like for example I am in an office I -- maybe there is a tender that is supposed to be -- to be announced . but the tender has -- has been announced and whoever comes to get it is my wife . that is why I say that do not confuse yourself -- your wife your husband -- your wife (()) my husband because of my husband meaning I was talking to you in general that that tender instead of -- that is I have announced the tender in my office but whoever gets the tender is my own husband . so and -- that is why I say personal interest should not be confused with public interest meaning they should not conflict -- the interests in your personal home should not conflict public interest . therefore transparency must be there and if -- for example this issue you are talking about the issue of contracts which also in some phase earlier we talked about the issue about the contracts . that also is transparency that we want to ensure that what happens the citizens involved and benefit from this matter should be knowing what is going on they should make a decision about it and that transparency results from that -- from that (()) .
T44 public enterprise
T363 nutrition stakeholders are urged to promote the project. it's written by the special author, Shinyanga. published: 4th November 2016. nutrition stakeholders in Singida Region have been urged to develop the speed that was started by the nutrition project known as ANI (Accelerating Nutrition Improvement) through the ministry of health. while opening a two-day meeting for nutrition stakeholders held at Kahama District, Kahama District Commissioner, Fadhili Nkurlu has asked the stakeholders to promote all the benefits of the project and reorganize in order to rectify areas with limitations. the purpose of the conference that brought together various nutrition stakeholders including directors of all the councils in the region, the regional and district healthcare committees and health providers stakeholders, is through the implementation of the Accelerating Nutrition Improvement project in the region for two years of its implementation. the ANI project has increased the capacity of community awareness and a total 2,574 healthcare providers in nutritional issues for a period of two years.
T362 healthcare
T369 knife
T368 six neighboring countries meet to discuss the dispute in Libya. October 21, 2016 delegates from the countries neighboring Libya gathered on 19th October in Niamey town so as to try to continue with the file on the crisis in Libya. those involved in the lack of peace who are Niger, Chad, Tunisia, Algeria, Sudan and Egypt have insisted that the conflicting sides should hold negotiations that will involve all stakeholders. more than five years after foreign countries getting involved in Libya, the situation in the country is still complex. "today we are witnessing many incidents in the country of Libya and that's the reason that will be needed to have a meeting with all the stakeholders in order to look for a solution," said the Chadian Minister for Foreign Affairs. in one statement, six neighboring countries that met in Niamey town showed their support for Libya that is faced with conflict. neighboring countries also feel involved with lack of peace and to therefore called on both conflicting parties to sit at a negotiating table that will involve all stakeholders. "there is no point for foreign countries to get involved in the issues of Libya, there is no military solution. we request the government to have unity in order to reach those who do not take part in that government," said Pierre Buyoya, a representative of the African commission. peace in Libya is for the sake of its residents but also its neighbors, said Martin Kobler, the special representative of the United Nations. "it is true for all stakeholders to accept the advice of the international community, but they are supposed to do that themselves. we cannot decide on their behalf," added Kobler. share
T38 Mandela's ANC and Nyerere's CCM December 21, 2013 Nelson Mandela's party of African national Congress (ANC) and Mwalimu Julius Nyerere's Revolution party (CCM) are very similar parties. one is that, at one time those parties were led by people with reputable characters to a point of those parties being attributed to the leaders. these are leaders who are praised and taken to heaven by some of their fans and followers in and out of their countries. there are some who say that the two, meaning Mandela in ANC and Nyerere in CCM are saints. even though Mandela used to decline often that he is not a saint, in Tanzania there are efforts being made that wants the Catholic church in Vatican to officially announce Mwalimu Nyerere as a saint. another thing that makes those parties look alike is how they can manage their countries, although their management nowadays is not as firm as it used to be initially when they reigned in the leadership of their governments in countries with democratic constitutions. I believe that because they have that kind of constitution, there countries that drag themselves and not perish. together with having that constitution, those countries also have powerful communal and steady basic citizen rights, they have opposition parties that are firm, vigilant media. South Africa on its side has more than that. it has powerful trade unions, free and stable legal system together with big and powerful corporations and businesses. with no doubt, there are differences between the parties. one is that the parties originated for the purpose of fighting different enemies who had different systems of ruling them, though all of them were humiliating Africans. and more so, they spearheaded their independence struggles under different environments. another difference is that contrary to CCM, the party of ANC is a party which is like an umbrella, below it are other powerful parties to support it. among them is South African Communist Party (SACP) and the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu). some of the ministers of the government lead by ANC are leaders or main members of those parties. and even Mandela himself aside from being the ANC leader, he was also a secret member and a representative of the executive committee of the Communist Party. the party of CCM and its government, on their side do not have such like structure. and they never had a structure like that since their origin from where it came. when we talk about CCM during those days we especially talk about TANU. and the biggest difference is that despite the party of ANC has really passed CCM by age- ANC was born on January 8, 1912 and is the oldest party in the African continent- moreover, it does not have a great experience in driving the government as CCM. both parties have succeeded in their great objective of bringing independence from white colonialism in Tanganyika or discriminating leadership of Boers in South Africa. above those great achievements together with other developments in general, the parties have failed to get majority of the citizens of their countries out of poverty. in South Africa the situation is worse. discriminatory leadership and racism was stopped in that country after the first democratic elections in the year 1994. that, without a doubt, was a great achievement, but it did not get millions of black Africans in that country out of poverty. indeed, their situation became increasingly worse following emergence of economic discrimination. this discrimination was not racism because a group of African capitalists came up, among them being the top ranked leaders of ANC, Cosatu and the Communist party. these ones used their positions in their parties or in the government to enrich themselves. let me just mention one example of Missus Joyce Moloi-Moropa who is an ANC member of parliament and the treasurer for the Communist Party. this honorable communist woman is the Director of Masincazelane Investments Company that was formed by the Communist Party. as if that's not enough, she has 19 percent shares in private university Letsatsi solutions and is the director in a brick making company called Zebediela bricks. Missus Moloi-Moropani is only one of the main leaders of ANC who engage themselves with large businesses. rumor has it that Zebediela Bricks company alone every year earns a profit of millions of American dollars.
T39 we have lost an opportunity with Obama July 05, 2013 finally president Barack Obama has visited Tanzania. the fact that Obama has an African ancestry makes his visit to some of the countries of this continent to have a unique attraction. but maybe if we put aside the joy of the visits by the first American president who is black American, and the fact that it is a great occurrence to be visited by a leader of the world super power, it is important to look at other more important matters related to the visit. maybe before I get deep into this discussion, let me talk about an incident that engulfed me on Twitter. Monday, just after Obama arrived in Dar, I found myself getting into 'a war of words' with one British Broadcasting Company (BBC) journalist who is a Tanzanian like me. what caused the war of words is he was angered by my tweets which mostly inclined on looking at heavy matters about the visit instead of the excitement that accompanied it. for example, I tried to arouse curiosity on how a common Tanzanian will gain from the visit. again I re-tweeted several tweets from different people who were viewing Obama's visit with a different perspective, particularly in matters of human rights, corruption and many others. that did not please that gentleman, and he bitterly attacked me, accusing me of lack of patriotism 'I am used by the white' (though he is an employee of a white people company). anyway, I finally decided to just ignore him for despite of him being a journalist (who was supposed to basically value my freedom of expression), appeared to oppress my constitutional rights to give ideas so long as they don't offend or abuse anyone. the incident was just one of the ones that accompanied Obama's visit. the other day, when the leader arrived in Tanzania, at least two great American newspapers - The New York Times and USA Today had heavy news about Tanzania. those newspapers through their writers who came home to do the coverage of Obama's visit wrote different issues that puts in doubt the image of our country. depending on the interviews they did with people of different cadres at home, the newspapers talked about the act of hijacking Doctor Ulimboka, the killings of Padre Evaristus Mushi in Zanzibar, Arusha bomb attack and prime minister Mizengo Pinda's opinion to allow police to beat up crooked citizens. different from those great newspapers in and out of America, most of our newspapers at home (except this profound one) appeared to direct all of their minds to the logistics of Obama's visit, especially on the issue of his security. trending news on our newspapers about that visit leaned on the number of vehicles on Obama's convoy, planes that came (and their sizes), the number of secret service agents and such like things. true, Tanzanians were supposed to be informed on how the president of America is guarded, but they would also really wish to know the benefits of the visit to their country. similarly, the citizens could have been done great service by our newspapers if they emulated New York Times and USA Today for using Obama's visit to inform the world about different matters that bothers us in development, for example corruption, human rights violation and many others. but we can go far beyond blaming some of our news writers who move around with sensational stories without caring about the lack of its benefits to the public. we should remember that it is just recently our country received another great international visitation after being visited by president Xi Jinping of China. government reports expressed that during the visit, several contracts were signed between the two countries (China and Tanzania). till now the contracts have remained secret. maybe the situation will be different in this Obama visit from the fact that our Chinese counterparts are still courting secrecy, the matter of citizen's rights to receive and share information is not allowed. to America, maybe what would be hidden from us is the contract of security secrets, but in real situations we can be informed many agreements between that country and ours following Obama's visit. but the big problem and the one that makes me to personally view Obama's visit as just an act of being happy about but might not have any importance, it is true that our poverty does not come from lack of donor funding from sponsor nations. according to recent statistics, for a long time Tanzania has been in the third position worldwide after Afghanistan and Iraq for receiving international aid.
T36 British colonies
T37 who and who have secret accounts outside and why? June 28, 2012 among friends whom I'll never leave, is lawyer Enrico Monfrini. this is not just a skillful lawyer, but he is also a hunter. his work is to trace stolen money especially by dictatorial leaders and kept in secret accounts outside their countries. I came to be acquainted with Monfrini in the year 1999 when he got employed by the Nigerian government, to search for and reveal the funds that General Sani Abacha had transferred and hidden in foreign banks. I was introduced to him by my one big and best Nigerian friend, who had met with Monfrini late in the night in Geneva town and requested him to help Nigeria find out the 'looting' by Abacha. Abacha who died on June the year 1998 had two major attributes: first, he was a dictator and second, he was one of the richest tycoons in Africa. but he got his wealth through illegal means in the 1990's when he was Nigeria's military ruler. Abacha was quick to embezzle from the treasury of Nigeria and steal from his fellow Nigerians. even though people knew he had the wealth, no one exactly knew how much money he had and where he kept them. hence immediately after Abacha died, the Nigerian government approached Monfrini to help it search and recover the funds to the government treasury of Nigeria. I am very lucky to know and plan friendship with Monfrini who now is aged 67 years. he is gentle, methodical, humorous and is not someone with the selfishness of hiding from his friend concerning what he knows. it is his hospitality that attracted me to him and it indeed helped me when I was writing various articles about Sani Abacha's theft and how Monfrini managed to search for approximately two billion US dollars hid by Abacha in foreign accounts. out of that, Monfrini has until now helped recover one point three billion dollars to Nigeria's treasury. Monfrini has also been attending to financial reserves and other resources of 'Baby Doc' Duvalier, former Haiti ruler who has been accused of corruption and extravagance when he was in leadership in the years of 1970 to 1980. at the moment, Monfrini has been employed by the new Tunisian government to trace the wealth of the toppled President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali together with that of his wife Leila Trabelsi and their relatives. it is estimated that the value of their money and other wealth isn't less than billions of American dollars. until now, Monfrini has succeeded in finding the money less one hundred million American dollars. but he is still proceeding with his investigation and he says that he is confident of revealing much more. the biggest problem that Monfrini is getting is the lack of genuine cooperation from banks and even some governments of the western countries, in taking the 'dirty' money of the corrupt and returning them to the treasury of the concerned country. I know the challenge that Monfrini was going through when he wanted the British government to assist him. he has been going to London for a period of approximately six years, knocking at the offices of the concerned executives requesting them to assist him. welcoming and listening to him in a civilized manner, but mostly leaving with nothing. when lucky, he could be given reports that had no value to his investigation. the French government on its side remained silent and did not hand him even a single document to help in his endeavors. one time Monfrini went to Luxembourg believing that Abacha had hid money of the sum of 30 million dollars there. when he started doing his investigations he came to realize that the amount of money Abacha had in Luxembourg is more than 30 million dollars, he had 650 million dollars. out of that, 400 million dollars are still remaining in Luxembourg. Monfrini in his investigation has realized that Abacha had hidden around 221 million dollars in three accounts that are in the banks, in the country of Liechtenstein in Central Europe. the case of requiring those funds to be returned to Nigeria has been going on for a period of 12 years, and even after the court ordered that those funds be returned to Nigeria, they were still in those accounts. all these demonstrate the hypocrisy of the government and financial institutions of the western countries that claim to fight against corruption while helping corrupt individuals hide the fruits of their corruption in banks of those same countries of the West. western nations are daring to continue being an obstacle to fighting corruption despite those United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) that became operational in December 2005. countries that acknowledged those conventions and appended their signatures are required to have legal frameworks that will be in a position to identify and forbid corruption and also provide international cooperation guidelines that will make it possible for funds stolen and deposited in foreign banks to be refunded back. unfortunately, these anti-corruption laws are weak in many countries and that weakness is what enables the corrupt people to transfer the stolen funds to foreign banks. that weakness also enables them undertake in money laundry and use it to buy mansions or in business in foreign countries. the report that was released last week by the Central Bank of Switzerland (SNB) that clearly showed that residents of East Africa have funds reaching one point three billion dollars in secret accounts in the banks of that country was not surprising. what we didn't know was the amount of those funds and the owner. and until now no one knows how those colleagues have gotten all that money and why they decided to deposit them in secret accounts in diaspora banks. according to that SNB's report, the owners of those accounts from Kenya have surpassed their fellow counterparts from the other countries in this region. they have a total of 857 million dollars, followed by their Tanzanian counterparts with 178 million dollars, the Ugandans have 159 million dollars, the Rwandese with 29.7 million dollars and the Burundians with 16.7 million dollars. SNB did not say that the funds were generated through corrupt ways but that is what many people believe. the question being asked is, why are those people depositing the funds in secret accounts? we know according to the information we are receiving that is that the Tanzanians with those secret accounts are politicians and businesspersons. the politicians who are purported to have those accounts are veterans in Tanzanian politics. it is purported that the owners of those accounts are not the ones who deposited those funds in the bank. and if not them then who deposited on their behalf and with what reasons? according to the African Union (AU) every year, African countries are losing more than 150 billion dollars, about 25 percent of their country's total revenue as a result of bribery and corruption. that amount is enormous and its effect is to make products sold in Africa escalate in their prices by approximately 20 percent. moreover, that corruption scares away those anticipating to invest in Africa and therefore hampering development and making many Africans to languish in poverty. most of that money that denies African countries the opportunity to overcome poverty are lying in Swiss banks, a country whose rules and regulations concerning banking activities safeguard the corrupt individuals and the monies they acquire through unlawful ways. in my own understanding, many African politicians who are known they have or had secret accounts in the Swiss banks are those, that come from countries that mine and sell oil or minerals. that is why their list has names of President Jose Eduardo Dos Santos of Angola, Dennis Sassou-Nguesso of Congo-Brazzaville and Obiang Nguema of Equatorial Guinea. heads of Elf Aquitaine Oil Company have confessed that they have been depositing for the former President of Gabon Omar Bongo, 50 million dollars every year to one of his secret bank accounts in Switzerland. those payments were a bribe to Bongo for giving that company the license to mine oil in Gabon. the government of Switzerland did not say anything about, that and as it appears is that Gabon will not succeed in recovering those funds that will help the country to fight with challenges of bringing development. it maybe also be a challenge to the government of Gabon to criticize Omar Bongo because the government currently being run by President Ali Bongo, who is his son. it is estimated that, Swiss banks have 35 percent of all the savings deposited in the banks of the world. that is a very huge sum of money. among the owners of those accounts are: presidents, prime ministers, legitimate traders, thugs and drug traffickers. the rules and regulations that allow banks of that country to run their activities in secrecy are troubling even the big nations like America and Britain that try to bar funds acquired through unlawful ways or that are used in illegal activities such as terrorism from entering the banking system. the greatest victims from these activities of the Swiss banks are countries like ours that lack clean water, adequate schools, required facilities in our hospitals, accessible roads, electricity and agricultural development techniques. the funds that could have helped to rescue our countries from these challenges have been stolen and deposited in Swiss banks. the Tanzanian government is responsible for taking legal action and with urgency so that we are able to know it's the likes of who deposited funds in those secret accounts and for what reasons. we must identify those individuals as enemies of the country and if there is evidence for that, then strict legal action to be taken against them.
T34 let us continue to support the government on the Kagera earthquake written by the Editor published: 19 September 2016 two major events took place in Dar es Salaam City during the weekend concerning earthquakes in Kagera. the first event was of the Second Term Retired President, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, leading a walk to assist victims of the earthquake, where a total of 502 million shilling was raised. the five kilometer walk was organized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the East Africa cooperation. the second event was of President John Magufuli receiving the disaster report caused by the quake in Kagera Province and the neighboring provinces of Mwanza, Geita and Kigoma, from Prime Minister Kassim Fate. we support the Prime Minister's statement, where he said that the government has taken various measures for the quake victims, which include sending food, medical services and contingency reserves, and has also collected contributions from different parts and that up till now 3.3 billion shillings have been raised. likewise, we support President Magufuli's conclusion to request Tanzanians to ignore the people who want to use the disaster to spread dissension and hatred against the government. we emphasize, as the President said, that there is currently no technology to predict the occurrence of the earthquake and the quake was never brought about by the government. thus, there is no reason for any person, group of people or any institution to use the quake for spreading falsehoods with the aim of creating conflict between the government and the citizens. an earthquake is a disaster like any other disasters, such as fire, hurricanes, floods and so on. even wealthy nations with significant economic, technological and industrial developments are prone to earthquakes which cause many deaths and major property damage. in fact, China experienced an earthquake in the year 2014, where 617 people lost their lives, 193 people died in 2013 and 2,998 died in 2010. with regard to Japan, an earthquake killed 15,904 people in the year 2011 and 12 people in 2008. we request the state apparatus to monitor all those who began spreading rumors and also monitor those who want to use the disaster to collect donations for the purpose of self gain. similarly, we request citizens directly affected by the impact of the quake, for example those whose homes collapsed to now begin repairing those houses so as to help the government. we say so, because the government alone cannot rebuild all the houses that collapsed. if the government will be supported, it will be able to quickly repair all the damaged infrastructure such as schools, medical centers, roads and other social services. we thank organizations, businessmen, civil servants, companies and individuals who continue to contribute to the victims of the incident. their contributions are crucial in addressing the disaster caused by the earthquake. we urge all Tanzanians affected by the disasters, to continue providing roofing sheets, blankets, mattresses, maize, rice, bean, oil, money, clothing and various aid to the victims of the quake through the Prime Minister's Office and the Kagera Provincial Office.
T35 President Mwinyi formal guest of the Rotary race written by our author published: 12 October 2016 retired President Alhaji Ali Hassan Mwinyi is expected to be a formal guest at Dar Rotary tournament scheduled to be held tomorrow at Green, Oysterbay Dar es Salaam stadiums starting at 12 in the morning. the races are organized by six Rotary clubs in Dar es Salaam in partnership with Bank M and this year's theme is "healing life, social transformation". speaking to this newspaper yesterday, Acting Secretary General of Athletics Tanzania (RT), Ombeni Zavalla, said that the annual race preparation has been completed. the races are held on October 14 every year as a memorial of the death of first Tanzanian president, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. Dar Rotary marathon is a 21 kilometer race and every year has been a great success by engaging star athletes from inside and out of Tanzania and winners awarded gifts. despite being a formal guest, retired President Mwinyi participates in the five kilometer race with other leaders.
T32 the council is supposed to put aside entrepreneurial sections for the youth. written by Raymond Mihayo, Kahama. published on: 09 October 2016. the Msalala council in Kahama district, has been wanted to set aside areas for the sake of entrepreneurship for the youth as well as not delaying them to get the five percent that they deserve from the earnings in that council, a step that will help to give them development and grow the economy of the country. that command was given by Refugees Torch in the country, Alex Kayuni when he was giving torch message to the people of Isaka location, and emphasize the council to secure a place so as to add youths earnings. Kayuni said in the efforts of the country to enter the middle income, it is a must for that council and others in the country, to make sure they set aside official areas for the purpose of entrepreneurship for youths starting from villages up to towns. additionally, he reminded the council to make sure it starts youth SACCOS which will be involved in giving loans to the youth while emphasizing that those funds reach them in time so that they can do activities of entrepreneurship that have profit and to build the economy of the country. the member of parliament for that county, Ezekiel Maige, he pledged the fifth government to support the efforts of bringing change in that council to ensure it gives the money on time which was arranged in the budget for the projects. the district commissioner of Kahama, Fadhili Nkurlu, said those races of the torch in that council are 216 kilometers, has passed in two divisions, seven wards and 10 development projects that were started by the citizens whereby some were inspected, launched and a foundation stone laid. all the projects costs 2.4 billion shilling.
T33 the Zero campaign ends this year with Carolyne Agosa. contribution campaign to contribute money to prevent the death mothers and young babies, popularity known Beyond Zero, has reached one year. since it started December 1, that campaign which is the project of the president's wife, Mother of the Nation Margaret Kenyatta, has managed to buy perfect tool to 20 migratory clinics. reaching December, 16 clinics had been removed from the more affected county and such deaths as well as Taita Taveta, Narok, Samburu, Homa Bay, Baringo, Isiolo, Wajir, Kilifi and Kwale. that campaign has used various techniques to contribute money, here the marathon speed being the main one that hits the news headlines more. Missus Kenyatta wrote a story with Carolyne Agosa in April 13 as the first president's wife to run the London Marathon in European country. she finished those 42 kilometer in seven hours, 05 minutes and 28 seconds. it was not her first race. earlier on March 9, she launched the first half marathon of Mother of the Nation, in the name of the First Lady's Half Marathon, in Nairobi as preparation for the London Marathon. "today we ran so that we there can be a generation without HIV, to prevent the spread of HIV from the mother to the child. we ran to contribute money to strengthen the accessibility of quality healthcare through the mobile clinics which will bring services more nearer to the Kenyans, he said after that race that involved the sections of 21 kilometer, 10 kilometer and 2 kilometer for pleasure. about 30,000 runners participated. mother and child, "today, we ran to give the womenfolk and infants life. we ran because every mother deserves to embrace her unborn child and go home with it, and the unborn child deserves to grow up and celebrate a lot of years after being born. we need to run until where there will be no other deaths to womenfolk and children that can be prevented. more than 5,500 womenfolk in this country die every year while giving birth. and 13,000 children are infected by the HIV virus. from the success of those race, Missus Kenyatta plunged herself in the field again to join with a hundred of Kenyans to launch the registration of the second phase of the Half Marathon Race of the Mother of Nation 2015. that activity was launched in October in Karura forest in Nairobi city, and that race has been planned to be held in March 8, 2015 in Nairobi city. "we will continue to ran so as to contribute funds and to encourage leaders and Kenyans to promote a future that is healthy for the womenfolk and our children.
T30 lady destroys boyfriend's property a guy from this area is counting losses after his girlfriend destroyed household items worth a fortune when she found him having fun with another woman at a club. rumors say that the guy had known that wonderfully beautiful lady for the last two years and they became lovers. after knowing each other, the two started a relationship and started visiting each other frequently. later their relationship solidified and they decided to get married and started the wedding preparations. "unluckily, the guy is not the type of person to be content with one woman and has several other lovers though his girlfriend does not know," said the source. however, his forty days came to pass at the end of the week, when the guy came from work and as usual joined his friends to relax at a club that had organized music entertainment. unfortunately, his girlfriend had earlier planned with her brothers to meet in order to make plans that our source did not elaborate. the surprising thing is that they decided to meet at the club where the guy was relaxing with his friends, but he was not aware. just as soon as the lady entered the club famous for organizing entertainment concerts known as Mugithi Nite, she saw her boyfriend embracing a lady as they passionately kissed in public. seeing that, the lady was incensed, she went to the guy and confronted him, "so this is how things are," yelled the pretty lady. "if you think I'm a person to be shared with club sluts then you'll see since today you'll know and you yourself will regret," said the lady. according to a source, the pretty lady went out and boarded a motorcycle up to the guy's home, where she took a club and in anger broke electronic and furniture items and caused such a loss that the guy will never forget in his life. it was not immediately discerned if the pair were reunited after the incident. by Kimani Wa Njuguna
T31 kilometer
T329 <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> because if you really want to see %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> then there is something another incident happened somewhere %incomplete mm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> he now wonders where to start from those incidents are too many . mm . <no-speech> crime has become rampant . you see %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . you see now if they gave our president ample time -- ample time this president can -- can bring development in this country he can lead this country in great faith . ahh . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> that's why even these %incomplete it is because they -- it is because those people disturb him they threaten him there are threats there is this there is what mm they even surprise me . mmhm . <no-speech> even %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> he is himself surprised too where to start from . meaning things are happening %incomplete (()) where are the ears ? <no-speech> this -- their case is in Hague and they don't even know now what to do as they are (()) they are trying to cover up our leaders . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> honestly those people %incomplete (()) or they just pray to God %incomplete <no-speech> if I was there I could have said that case -- the one at the I_C_C be dismissed because they don't give -- they don't give our president ample time to lead the country you know he is here he has reached here he has gone this way now how will our government be honestly ? things %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you %incomplete (()) %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> or he could have done this he could have -- he could have sent one person to go and represent him because things -- if he goes again you will -- he will just hear that things have happened here . mm . <no-speech> true (()) %incomplete so again (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> so it is like you see -- they felt Kenya had thought about the I_C_C issue and said -- leave Kenya alone it still has -- Kenya still has the -- the security it has *let them* *let them* explode that (()) -- let them explode Kenya and come together to start investigating the Westgate matter . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> that -- that thing now mm . <no-speech> you also know when -- the vice president went there %incomplete (()) %incomplete <no-speech> (()) %incomplete <no-speech> he -- he asked for a chance -- to come back here to mourn he was -- I don't know who -- his lawyer is the one who told them to give them a chance to come back it is when they accepted they gave them a chance then he came so I now wonder (()) %incomplete who ? mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) I saw they are happy with Kenya (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I wonder why if our president goes %incomplete you know Kenya is one of (()) ? <no-speech> <no-speech> pardon ? Kenya is one of the countries that has really developed . <no-speech> <no-speech> I now wonder if the president goes -- if the president goes again another crime will happen %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech>
T328 Polo returns after loan gets finished in a club Jombi of this place has come back after disappearing into a club for one month enjoying himself with ladies while spending the money he borrowed from a bank. rumor has it that in that one month, the guy forgot his family completely until the children lacked food. according to rumors in the streets, Jombi, who is the chief officer in a certain private company in the city, troubled his family, which is in Kayole, Nairobi, who were searching for him in hospitals, mortuaries and even in police stations, worried that maybe he has been involved in an accident or found himself in the hands of security officers. "his family went round all corners without success. when they didn't find him and settled and started praying to God," said the narrator. however, after one month his family was shocked when they heard rumors that Jombi was seen in a certain club with a certain lady. "after four weeks the guy was found in a certain guest house in this region continuing to have fun," explained the narrator. it is said that his wife went in that guest house and found the guy gulping down alcohol in company of a certain lady. "the guy had taken alcohol and was dancing to the fullest. the money he had taken as a loan was over and when the lady he was with saw Jombi's wife, she left and said she had harvested enough. Jombi was dragged and taken back home," said the narrator. beginning drinkers required to have ATM permission. but if they tell him money. by Amimo Zacchaeus
T537 women lead smuggling of gold, tanzanite it is written by Ikunda Erick published: 04 September 2016 the government has noted that a large percentage of tanzanite and gold minerals are smuggled by women who wear them in different parts of the body and say it is jewelry so when they go through the inspection machines at the airports it is hard to find out if it is smuggling. as a result, the government has built itself to control various spheres in the jewelry industry since it has been reported that huge robbery is carried out by them in the shade of jewelry. this was stated in the evening by the Minister for Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo while speaking on the 'Tunatekeleza' program being aired by the National Television Center (TBC1). "you find a woman, dressed in gold, a lot of bracelets and other jewelry, you think she is a gourmet but it is smuggling our minerals abroad, you cannot stop her, we are now planning to deal with the industry, we have discovered the great robbery of these minerals is being done there," said Professor Muhongo. he said, alongside the government reducing the speed of theft, the problem still continues and that the Tanzania Mineral Audit Agency (TMAA) recently seized 10 tons of minerals being smuggled. he said government efforts since 2012 have been undertaken to establish benches in the country's airports that monitor and minimize mineral smuggling and since the start of work on these benches have succeeded in controlling large quantities of minerals. when Professor Muhongo said this, the country's Mineral Commissioner Paul Masanja spoke of the smuggling of the minerals out of the country in different areas and said the amount being smuggled is big. he said the figures in 2013 show that 80 percent of tanzanite minerals were exported to the country through Panya routes and benefited Kenyan countries which transported and sold tanzanite worth 100 million US dollars. India also sold tanzanite worth 300 million dollars while Tanzania's producing the minerals got 38 million dollars from exporting the minerals. speaking of the mining sector as a whole, Professor Muhongo said it was possible in the past that the country made mistakes, but it is good to look at the current situation and then avoid being deceived again. "we be honest, it is possible that we previously made a mistake on mining, but what we are doing now is to look at where we are now so we do not make mistakes again, we want this sector to generate national revenue by 10 percent from 3.5 percent of the current," he said. he said the current government is helping Tanzanians who are small miners to be centralized, by enabling modern mining tools to grow their economy and nation rather than relying on big foreign mining companies. in implementing that, he said on September 15, this year miners will begin being granted equipment up to 200 million shillings for empowering modernization and increase revenue. regarding electricity supply, Minister Muhongo said in the 2016/17 financial year the domestic budget and foreign donors for rural electrification have reached 1 billion shillings and this is a major step in the revolution in many rural areas. "we have passed in the Parliamentary budget this year, we have allocated 535.4 billion Tanzanian shillings equivalent to 50 percent increase in REA II, and foreign donors have given us money and total budget for this year of rural electricity is one trillion," he added in implementing a rural electricity project of REA III, the number of people receiving electricity will increase. regarding the gas industry, he said that 45 to 50 percent of electricity generated in the country is derived from gas, which saved a lot of money that could be used to generate electricity from oil. he said gas benefits in the country are numerous and that gas consumption in electricity production has helped to alleviate the burden on the public by removing utility services on electrical purchases as well as to new applicants requesting electrical connection for the first time, not paying for the application form. referring again to changes within the Electricity Company (TANESCO), Professor Muhongo said it must be made a major change in order to move as the Fifth Phase Government. "I do not want to talk so much about TANESCO, but with its design and performance and as we go it must be marked by a dramatic change, it will be a fast-paced TANESCO, without corruption, robbery, negligence on the way coming," he said. speaking of oil and gas he said that in order for the country to be a medium-sized economy, the nation depends on the gas and industry economy and to start a Kilwa fertilizer factory in Lindi region in collaboration with the National Development Company (NDC) and your discussions on good steps and stakeholders, including Germany, Denmark and Pakistan. after completion of its construction, he said on a day producing 3,850 tons of fertilizer and the production would help improve the agricultural sector and thus assist the industry.
T321 'students remind parents to wash' it's written by Theddy Challe, Babati published: 18th October 2016 the students of primary and secondary schools in Magugu village, in Babati District, Manyara region, have been advised to remind their parents to use clean water when washing their face due to their parents lacking that knowledge. that was said by the former Governor of the International Lion Club (Lion International), East and Central Africa, Sakishi Sharima from Arusha. the club volunteered to provide free eye testing services during the delivery of the service in the Magugu village in the district. doctors of Saint Elizabeth Thomas Hospital, 'Father Babu', in collaboration with doctors from Haydom Hospital in Mbulu District, Manyara Province, have joined in providing eye surgery services and giving of eye glasses for two days 15th and 16th October for those with eye problems. the sick that came out on the first day were 250 whereby among them 14 underwent eye surgery, but the second day they received approximately 600 patients, a situation that forced them to send others back home and they remained with 300 patients, while 36 underwent operation and gave more than 400 eye glasses for those who needed them. the response of the residents of Magugu town, together with the neighboring villages, has seemed overwhelming as a result of the number of dependents on doctors treating 250 per day to increase and forced them to add a day for doing surgery for patients who still needed it. therefore, they have been told to go back home until they are called to go to hospital, and then they will return again. the member of parliament for Babati rural, Jito Soni, explained that the need for eye disease treatment is high, they have been unable to afford the cost of treatment due to lack of funds. he said in that under normal circumstances a patient pays as from 80,000 to 100,000 shillings for treatment and eye glasses sold to them for between 15,000 to 45,000 shillings, a situation that makes many to continue remaining at home without getting eye treatment. the District Commissioner for Bahati, Raymond Mushi visited the area where the treatment was done and praised that club for their contribution and requested them to help them get a modern laboratory as a result of the hospital is the best in eye services in the Northern Region. also, that member of parliament has requested various stakeholders to come out so as to improve various services of that center, which has a challenge of having a small ultrasound machine room and lack of a modern laboratory and also doesn't have a perimeter wall hence causing people to enter the center carelessly.
T320 hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? now talk to me . mm . <no-speech> let me ask you -- how did that Beca's girlfriend story go ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> even me I am in the mix she was not yet back when I left but I have not heard any news . <no-speech> really -- really that lady when you entered inside -- when you entered inside she had not left ? <no-speech> <no-speech> she was not there . mm she had not yet come . <no-speech> ohh really even %incomplete I left when she had no yet come mm . <no-speech> ohh (()) %incomplete <no-speech> mm we have really laughed -- we have laughed . <no-speech> mm I am telling you we have taken everything -- on reaching the road -- on reaching the road we remembered the ones in the dish then went back quickly and took them . <no-speech> you are -- you -- you are daring . <no-speech> for real you are cold hearted I laughed for real are very daring . <no-speech> (()) . and that lady -- that digital lady from Corner Three came up to there and she told me that those your girlfriends are daring -- those your girlfriends are totally daring . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> pardon who is that -- who is that ? one who is standing where T_V and digital she is wearing red clothes she is my friend we were with her at Sarit and she told me my God where do these ones come come from I have never seen them ? (()) ? <no-speech> mm . mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> these ones are crazy . <no-speech> really she deserves that -- she deserves that . mm (()) %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> who is that ? <no-speech> she deserves that . that lady deserves to be treated like that . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm why is she selfish ? <no-speech> then when you go (()) you will tell us how you have styled that lady you understand (()) for free that is why I called you . she is selfish . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> okay I will tell you . <no-speech> don't cut .
T323 <no-speech> <no-speech> we shall wait for their complete decision but yesterday when Waititu went to the school there he said %incomplete mm . <no-speech> mmhm mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> that the school has already been gone back to -- has already been returned the government has now no problem with that . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm he has now gone into schools and into classes . ohh . I think during campaigns there are such things . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . mm there are such things but God is there . <no-speech> and so have you gone back to %incomplete (()) . <no-speech> I have now gone back to work . mm . God is there and he protects his people . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm mm . mm mm . I now don't have a problem but %incomplete but now are you back to work ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> I am back to work and %incomplete mm ? I have no issue I have -- I am back to work I am in class right now %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech>
T322 did Shilole's Nuh Mziwanda copy from Nick Cannon and Mariah Carey their tattoo? he has gotten an example! Bongo Flava artist Nuh Mziwanda shocked many after drawing on himself a tattoo of his lover's name 'Shilole', a tattoo that is permanent. something that shocked many people. "I have done this out of my own will, I have not been forced by anyone. I have felt like doing this because I love Shilole so much... it is fine if we separate but I will stay with it up to when I go to the grave." Nuh told the times FM website. however, Shilole said she wont tattoo herself because Nuh has done it and that she is grateful for his decision because he was not forced and it is a sign of true love, different from what she has ever experienced before. "I cannot say I will do that because of anything else but only love and when I will decide to do that, I will do just like he has done. honestly, he has true love different from the men I was with, people just like to hear they are going out with ShiShi in search of a kick but Nuh as Nuh has his own unique love. it gets to a point I even wonder where he was. they say when God wants to give you something he does not write you a letter." Nuh Mziwanda's decision is in line with Nick Cannon and Mariah Carey's decision in 2008 when they drew permanent tattoos on their bodies after getting married. Nick wrote 'Mariah' on his back, and Mariah drew a butterfly bellow her back and wrote in small wordings 'Mrs Cannon', "to me rings are special and attractive, but a tattoo is more than anything. they are for ever and ever..." said Mariah Carey. right now Mariah and Nick Cannon have separated and according to reliable sources they are only waiting for divorce. but they have tattoo marks for their lifetime that will never be erased forever even when they will have other lovers. however, tattoo can not mean much like their twins who are a great attachment in their lives. to what step will Nuh Mziwanda and Shilole get? will they last like the tattoo of Nuh Mziwanda or they will melt and leave each other with written marks and! we wish them all the best.
T325 <misc> you can put a system for life insurance that when I retire I be given benefits and some life insurance policies also pay benefits if the policy holder travels and meets a death tragedy permanent disability temporary disability injury that needs therapy treatment and even be compensated funeral expenses or transportation of the body . or the same way it is used as something of an investment plan and be paid benefits in the future after the number of years that you chose in life policy have elapsed . and families have gone into poverty after the breadwinner died or got a permanent disability . I speak this considering for example a father or mother is the breadwinner in a family in that house went to a bank or an loaning association and took out a loan in order to advance their family . <no-speech> unluckily because everything was planned by Almighty God they died . <no-speech> that means they will not be able to pay the loan . and he put the house as collateral for that loan . <no-speech> if they don't have life insurance it is possible for that family to get into big trouble because their collateral will be used to pay back the loan to the relevant institution . <no-speech> but careful people nowadays who take life insurance even the loan ones and they get a profit from us life insurance companies to go and pay any remainder of the loan . if the tragedy befalls a borrower who is a family breadwinner . <misc>
T324 he searched a job for me and now am his sex slave. hi guys, how are you? it's two months now since I left working in the old company, and now I'm in another company, I was given this new job by my Boss who is the head of our department, I have gotten a promotion a bit, there I was a clerk and here I am supervisor. now this Boss dropped me at work we have been friends since I entered here, what hurts me it's the behavior of this Boss of mine, I mean I have been like a slave, all the time he wants us to have sex, in the evening when it's time to leave he wants us to remain in his office, I found myself reaching home at nine so finding my mister already back in time, it becomes a quarrel, I have to fool him because the new job has become too demanding in me, I'm late to leave. weekends it's like that, I have to fool them home that we are needed to work even on Sunday, I find myself living like a slave because of these work that I was given by this Boss, am worried that this words might my Mister it will become a problem. I wish to go back to my earlier job, this new job pays me a good salary but I'm like a slave, sometimes when I show symptoms of insistence to remain in the evening he becomes harsh and starts to threaten me that "you forget who put you there" I am forced to be intimate with him although I don't like. I'm asking for advice what should I do?
T327 women steal from their husbands in the pockets. Dar es Salaam. some women or men can steal money from each other inside the house. whether it is in the wallet or pockets of pants for men, or a woman's purse. it is explained women are the supervisors in the exercise of doing frightening tours in the pockets of their husbands. seven out of 10 women that were interviewed by this newspaper, have admitted to once stealing from their husbands or lovers, while only two men out 10 have admitted having once done that. in every matter, there is a reason. some of the women who got time to talk, explained reasons for doing that, including not being given enough money, to mix them in order to solve some family matters and to reduce the weight of money from the pouches of their drinking husbands. Abdallah Kilemi, says even if the money they take, they use because of family needs, they aren't supposed to do that because that is theft. he says normally, a woman is supposed to tell her husband if she took money from the pocket instead of doing that in secret. "some of them take for their own benefit instead of the benefit of the family, my wife used to do that time and again and I knew, except I never asked her". "I investigated after seeing every day when I woke up in the morning I have less money from what I came back with yesterday and after one or two days, she changes or she has made another hairstyle, bought clothes or new shoes," complains Kilemi. Patrick Innocent says, he has prohibited his wife from taking his money, even if she finds it when she's washing because she has been using it as a pretext to buy things with a lot of money. "she buys a lot of cosmetics and takes a package to her home if you ask her to know where she has gotten the money, she says she usually takes money from my pouch when I come back drunk or when she is collecting clothes in order to clean them". "I don't believe if they are enough to do all the things she does, I don't want to hear she bought something with that money, it can't be that amount," says Innocent. a resident of Tandika Dar es Salaam city, Zubeda Yasini says her husband has been using a lot of money on things that aren't fundamental, including drinking liquor with friends and getting totally drunk, therefore when he comes back she reduces him the high quantity of money. she says, she once kept the money she picks from her husband's pockets until she got fees to pay for their daughter, who was learning at a nursery school and that it was hard for her husband to give money to pay for the child and whenever she told him, he said he didn't have. "she explains whenever he gives her money for food end of the month, they will have finished with each other even if an emergency will occur, there is nothing he gives her and the answer is, I don't have." "alcohol he drinks every day, but money to satisfy home needs, he doesn't add if he gives at the end of the month even if it will be enough to buy a packet of flour that's it, if there is an emergency, I add from my business of rice buns that is swaying from side to side," says Zubeda. Jacqueline Martini, a resident of Tandale, Dar es Salaam city, says, whenever she receives a salary, she shows her husband and agrees with him on what to do, but for a period of eight months, her husband doesn't contribute anything in their agreements. she says even she got a salary increase, she didn't tell him because she's squeezing him and has invented a new way of stealing from the pouch whenever he forgets himself. "I am lucky, various times, I have been lucky to steal from him up to 150,000, 500,000 shillings and he is unable to ask me because he doesn't involve me in his finance issues more than to take mine," says Jacqueline. she says there is a day she once asked him for 1,000 shillings he said he didn't have, but when he went to the bathroom, she searched his pockets and emerged with two notes of 10,000 shillings she didn't do any lingering, she took them and he has not asked her to date and life continued. an expert on psychological issues from the University of Dodoma, Modester Kamongi says that every day a woman believes she is the manager of important house issues while depending on her husband for money even if she works. therefore, if the husband doesn't give her, she gets a hard time and asks herself where are they going and even thinks, he's taking to other women when she searches him and gets even a little she gets relieved. "I don't support that behavior except psychologically it gives women benefit if they believe, they are using the same as their husbands even if if they haven't been given, especially for those who are denied," he says. Krish Buruhan (not a real name), a student who is in a relationship says, the work she does for her lover including satisfying him sexually isn't comparable to the money he gives her, therefore if she gets a chance, she steals small small. she says whenever she meets him, she seeks an opportunity on how to steal from him and because her lover believes in her as a result of her young age, he has never felt her. "he has his wife, he has no plans of marrying me, he's using me and the money he gives me is little, aah". "I squeeze myself with him on the pouch, I never left him whenever I get a chance, when I am with him, I don't think of anything more than 'to beat him' so that at least, I pay myself," says Krish.
T326 24 begging children escape Kurasini. written by Lucy Lyatuu. published: 27 September 2016. 24 children who were loitering and begging, were gathered by the governor of the region of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda and taken to be nurtured in the national children's settlement, Kurasini, have escaped and they are back on the streets. the officer in charge of the center, Beatrice Lawrance, said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam city when he was talking at the celebration of 21 years of law center and human rights (LHRC). center officials visited the children who lives there and give various donations. about children running away, he said in a period of three months in which Makonda has been encouraging cleanness in the city, he took 54 children, who were in the estate like beggars. among those children, 22 were connected and returned to their families and there are eight children who remain here in the center, and those who escaped many of them have 16 years," said Lawrence adding that far from those children the center has a total of 75 children. he said those children find a way to escape from the center due to the big challenge of short fences in some areas where sometimes even outsiders can see what is going on in the center. even that he said those children when they were brought in that center, they were superficial, giving statements of displeasure to be taken there saying they can not stay there. regarding other challenges of the center, he said the lack of medicine especially when a baby is sick, children's fares when going to school and when coming back, along with wanting solar power due unstable electricity every time. he said that the government station is the only one in the country that receives children from three years to 18 from different areas in the country, including orphans and those who are in dangerous environments who are found through protection and safety teams from every different municipal council. regarding the visit by the LHRC stakeholders, he thanked them for the different assistance that was taken to those children and requested other stakeholders to see to the needs of children and to take their time and to join them because it is a group that needs love and a lot of care. on his side, the Executive Director of LHRC, Doctor Hellen-Kijo Bisamba said they are celebrating 21 years from the time the center was started and for all that time they have been doing different activities of providing legal education, good governance and human rights. "the center today has visited the home of these children which is part of the celebration with an aim of celebrating together with the children and to continue to encourage the community to protect and to defend their rights, protection and quality welfare of the children in the country" said Doctor Bisimba.
T518 <no-speech> <no-speech> he -- %incomplete mm . he called me . he wanted to know Jane's issues . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> and I told him I don't know much I haven't met Jane for a period of time . now what yesterday -- %incomplete ohh . <no-speech> you should have told him you're in different universities . mm . he does know -- he knows that but he was just asking me if I had met with her . <no-speech> that's when he told me of Tony's issues about how he went to Tiani and now they are paying so much money . mmhm . <no-speech> but even his father was complaining very much that the child should have gone for the course he was called for that is a lot of money . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> now he is unable to send Jessie Jessie is at home . now -- %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> of he too -- that one that one what did he get ? <no-speech> Jane said he got a C . <no-speech> now %incomplete mm . were they not saying -- mine %incomplete hah mm that is God is of wonders mother . that I don't know what is of prayer -- I don't know what is of prayer . <no-speech> and they aren't they paying at this time now me it's when I wonder . mm . now . <no-speech> mm . and they complained and this is just the first . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> this one is just the first Jessie not yet . not yet %incomplete <no-speech> now those who follow behind are the ones with the tick . those who don't know anything now . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> even that one he too -- that one and -- that one is better the other person is the one %incomplete those the likes of Doro they are down . <no-speech> that other person now who has epilepsy that is the one %incomplete no . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> really . now that is the one %incomplete just stop that is God also is God is of wonders . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . mm . God is wonderful they were saying I don't know what and you struggle and pay . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> even Kenyatta university isn't a good university . -- they are being prayed for . mine are to be prayed for . ahh . that the university I do not know is Nairobi even Kenyatta is not a good university -- okay that one they themselves did not even get to Nairobi . mm . <no-speech> ahh . <no-speech> now you see ? mm they were saying that way . <no-speech> let him pay -- let him pay until the time that he will know it's getting difficult . <no-speech> <no-speech> and -- again you know that one can go and -- and -- and the course become hard for him . <no-speech> yes . mm it will be too hard for him that is difficult it requires those people you see like the likes of Angotse the likes of Andale those with that brain is just there . <no-speech> yes I can . mm . <no-speech> mm . people usually leave people go they change they do education . <no-speech> <no-speech> because it's hard not easy -- it's not easy it's hard . and %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> look since he left there he has never returned . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> he has never been seen here at home . <no-speech> he stays in Sotik . if he leaves Sotik %incomplete I usually talk and he comes to Nairobi . he said he will be seen at home maybe in December only . mm . <no-speech> all home matters don't you know our home matters they heard someone got a job . hard -- hard my child . <no-speech> <no-speech> hard . mm . <no-speech> and then %incomplete now I am afraid -- I am afraid of the matters of home people . <no-speech> you -- you saw how they saw just -- Cyprian while wearing of what of his he saw %incomplete he told me is %incomplete <no-speech> December is the time he starts getting money . ohh . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> first the Savira and then with this -- this -- this of shops here . <no-speech> mm . alright now that's when bad things had overwhelmed me . <no-speech> of their genes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> now then they had overwhelmed me so much . <no-speech> mm . those ones %incomplete <no-speech> mm . not good people . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm mmhm mmhm . not very good people -- there is a day I saw Ambale here in town just going around in circles weakened . <no-speech> <no-speech> who ? <no-speech> Ambale . <no-speech> which day again -- didn't he come to Kisumu ? <no-speech> but the day before yesterday I don't know it has been a little while . no %incomplete he came to Kisumu . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm . and he stays with those -- those Kuruju people they found him something here in Kisumu . <no-speech> ohh they found him these jobs of Indians Indians ? <no-speech> mm . he is in Kisumu these days . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh . not bad better than to sit and this Nairobi and to think about Nairobi people he'd rather stay there and do those jobs . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yes in the house %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> those ones -- those ones are a wonder because Osira's daughter that one who has a shop came to visit me %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> that is the way she was talking she was -- aiming at those ones . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh . the way they are %incomplete %incomplete not good people . ahh . how -- how that shop of hers things come they walk -- they disappear %incomplete <no-speech> they disappear no Luyo was there and Luyo is the one who is usually also bad and you see things got lost in the shop . <no-speech> see money gets lost . Mercy %incomplete mm . mm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> Mercy was there she sold -- she sold for some time really ? mm . <no-speech> she didn't sell for some time . -- just say %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> with them she was -- she sold for some time . now %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> Mercy didn't sell or not she %incomplete you saw how it -- how it disintegrated ? (()) . just in that way that way and first again they destroyed even her marriage . <no-speech> you see even the marriage went just like that . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> those people -- those people even if I am placed in this homestead of mine *more* . mmhm those are not good people . don't say mum . <no-speech> and the teacher at the oil place feeling hurt when looking at people . *then* . <no-speech> if he sees Job wants to marry he feels pain -- he feels pain . see of %incomplete <no-speech> mm . even -- even Omina feels %incomplete mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> and those ones even me I told -- I told %incomplete <no-speech> you know Owosi told Job even those ones aren't people to tell your issues . not people . <no-speech> you tell them even do what teacher first %incomplete mm . you you know %incomplete Ponye what mm he is a person of the people . really . a person of which people ? or let me leave it %incomplete he told him those ones are bad people . (()) . <no-speech> these people are bad . mm . <no-speech> the teacher is -- that (()) there in Tachoni . I don't even know what they are doing that tribe is usually not good . that -- that one mother -- that one mother maybe even now is the one she and Beatrice are the ones finishing me mother . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . mm . first this time the way they're together like this you can't know what they're thinking . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . you can't know even a little . mm . now yes Joff is taking her matters and telling Beatrice . <no-speech> but %incomplete <no-speech> he takes her matters -- he tells %incomplete he is telling her . you see now Melody %incomplete is that a person to tell ? didn't I only tell you Melody's issues . <no-speech> if the teacher is just involved in the affairs of Melody the affairs will end just like that didn't I tell you -- what did I tell you ? even I wondered . -- even -- you'll be shocked even -- he is looking for another man for Amela . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . didn't I tell you ? I told you -- if madam is just involved in that issue -- that issue you will see . mm . mm . he got involved these days he's quiet . <no-speech> he got involved until he saw it disintegrate . you've seen these days now he makes sure he has disintegrated it now he's quiet . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm mm . do you see how he's quiet now ? <no-speech> I told you I just knew -- I knew he must struggle . even me I wondered . mmhm . and Beatrice who is she years later she what -- if she was -- if she was like you now you are Job's sister mm . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> who is Jane Melody also (()) %incomplete <no-speech> but her how was it ? mm Melody also was -- was what looking for issues here from the teacher from uncle Mukabi from madam I don't know from who -- I don't know from who until even she made things to be difficult . mm ? <no-speech> and then again that girl instead of being just a gentle person in the same way Jeccinta was %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> she was gentle . mm ? <no-speech> she also now again is the one who wants to go round talking talking ohh madam I don't know told me madam %incomplete ohh . that I don't know Job's friend of where has said this way . <no-speech> and then she was listening to that one %incomplete I don't know it is Job's friend took me for lunch . <no-speech> ahh -- I saw him also . he listens to Beatrice too much . <no-speech> -- even if he has refused to call me these days let me just keep quiet . <no-speech> <no-speech> he listens to that Beatrice so much more than (()) . mmhm . <no-speech>
T519 cultural heritage
T512 prostitution syn whoredom
T513 municipal
T510 21 December 2012 Iimu Mkinga show adherence to local tourism by our writer, Pangani 18 primary school teachers in Maramba division, Mapatano and Mhinduro in Mkinga district, Tanga province have started heeding the governments call that encourages there being local tourism with the aim of growing the important sector for the nation's development. the teachers visited Saadan National reserve which is in Pangani and Bagamoyo districts where they have learned various things that are about the only reserve that has contact with the sea. speaking after visiting the reserve, the head teacher of Lugongo primary school Yohana Philemon said the tour has added the teachers enough understanding and that it will help them to give improved teaching of social education. he said that the tour was scheduled by Saida Ramadhani and Clement Shehiza where he they have thanked the conservationists of the Saadan reserve for the big efforts they put in to ensure that environmental conservation is improved. moreover, the teachers have asked citizens to develop a tradition of visiting National reserves since it is an important part of increasing understanding of the local tourism sector in the country. they wanted teachers and the society in general to set aside special time especially during leave to visit tourist spots around their places of residence to grow their understanding of that important sector to the country's development. he said that the plan to visit tourist attractions has been started by those teachers with the aim of increasing the understanding so that they can teach by correct examples in the subjects that relate to the sector and called on the government to continue improving the teacher's environment so that they can be able to expand the scope of visiting those places.
T511 I'm okay who is it is it Dan ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm is -- is Dan . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> haven't you made me very happy now I don't know what to cut ? <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh . no -- no I don't mean that way . what's this landline you're using is which one ? <no-speech> <no-speech> you don't worry provided you're called ? <no-speech> mm -- %incomplete agree . <no-speech> mm ? mmhm new -- new technology . <no-speech> <no-speech> and where are you now ? <no-speech> isn't that's even you know I just went like this I found I don't know Val is sick and I ran up to the hospital . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . I am very sorry . but I have -- I've come from there . <no-speech> ohh you've come from hospital ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm even that's why I am just near the house . <no-speech> mm . ohh . <no-speech> me too I am just relaxing in the house . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mmhm . to watch a movie . <no-speech> there is no juice like this colored water like this ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech>
T516 the Prime Minister has fired the Director of Water Lindi it is written by our author published: 20 October 2016 our Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has suspended the Director of Lindi Water Authority (Luwasa), engineer Adam Alexander for the mistake of misuse of office and failure to manage the construction of a water supply center in Lindi Municipality. the prime minister has handed over the Director to the Lindi Regional Commissioner for the Prevention and Corruption Corruption (TAKUKURU) Stephen Chami, and has directed him to investigate the matter. the Prime Minister issued the order yesterday when he visited the Ng'apa Water Project, where he ordered the position to be replaced by the Assistant Director of the Authority, engineer Idrisa Sengulo. "Takukuru Commander has a thorough review of his salary. he says he is being paid I know he is paid by Luwasa. check out the work he went to do Dar es Salaam if it corresponds to the days he was staying," he emphasized the Prime Minister in a statement released by his press office yesterday. the engineer is experiencing various accusation including misuse of office finances as well as receiving a salary without paying a Pay As You Earn (PAYE), paying a large amount of allowance as well as traveling for long. the Prime Minister said the government could not endure seeing the citizens suffer from the fact that the executives were assigned to serve them, not appearing at their work centers. "I have called him here until yesterday he was in Dar es Salaam," said Majaliwa. when asked why he had not been in his office for a long time, the director said that he was in Dar es Salaam writing a financial application to resolve the various challenges facing the institution. "how many days do you spend writing a proposal, a scholar you are using the whole month to write a proposal and staying in Dar es Salaam even your secretary does not know paying yourself allowances there! again after being paid 120,000 shillings a day you pay yourself 150,000 shillings. we cannot tolerate this situation," he said. the Prime Minister finished his three-day visit to Lindi and returned to Dar es Salaam.
T517 gasoline
T514 health services on the card still a test in Tabora December 29, 2016 by Grace Chilongola in Central Zone a section of Tabora town. delay to start giving health services for the health procedure through card services (TIKA) in the Tabora municipal council compared to other municipals in the country has caused residents of that municipal to join in slow pace in that service. since that service was started in the municipal council of Tabora the month of February, 2016, only 1,802 people who are equal to 4.7 percent are the ones who have joined that service until now. Tabora Municipal has 229,000 residents and 44 health centers. despite the Municipal and other towns registration started since 2014, in Tabora Municipal it started February 10, 2016 from the fact that Tabora councils, except the municipal did not have the Community Health Funds (CHF) and as a result of that state, the government instructed other municipals to join that service first and after that Tabora Municipal be incorporated in the TIKA services. those supposed to join TIKA procedures are people from the age of five years where everyone is supposed to pay 10,000 per year. the Tabora district commissioner Queen Mlozi has told Raia Mwema that the number of members increased from 92 that was there initially to 1,802 the month of November, 2016 thus increasing income from 920,000 shillings to 17 million shillings, an income that even though he has said is not satisfying. card treatment services is a voluntary program that was started in municipals, towns and cities after the community health fund was determined to be not spreading well in its services in municipals and cities because of the nature of its rules which include that a patient is supposed to be treated in a health center where he did his payment from. according to the district head, the government has started measures that involve all of its leaders from the level of ambassadors to district to encourage citizens to join that service. other than government leaders, also leaders of religious denominations (Sheikh, pastors and padres) together with leaders of political parties will with involved in the influencing so that finally many citizens join TIKA. "this is the great job we want to do, we have great faith in the work we are continuing with, citizens will comply since even councilors will be given a chance to encourage citizens on TIKA," said the head of district. moreover, some of the councilors including the one for Chenye division in Tabora municipal have been leading examples after paying TIKA services for disabled citizens in their fields of work. one of the actions taken by the government in growing the number of TIKA members includes influencing present citizens in the program to rescue poor villages which is headed by TASAF to be able to contribute to that service by contributing money in phases until getting to 10,000 shillings. on his side, CHF director under National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) Silvery Gonza, said after the government starting many new councils, NHIF stood out firm in those councils so that they at least get CHF services. instead of starting to change Tabora Municipal's CHF to be TIKA it is better to go the town council, for example Makambako which did not have that service completely as a result of its newness, therefore priority was to help new councils to start CHF and when we are done is when we start another phases of changing them in municipals and cities to be TIKA that is why we have delayed," he explained. according to the director, the law that established Community Health Fund (CHF) is the one that started TIKA procedures in municipal, town and city councils. some of the municipals that have joined TIKA up to know include Kinondoni council in Dar es Salaam, Bahati town municipal council in Manyara district, Makambako town municipal council, Njombe town municipal council, Tanga town and Tabora municipal. however, activities of changing CHF to be TIKA have stopped after the government promised to make changes on CHF systems in the whole country at city level, district councils and municipal. the implementation starts from 50 councils which are in the seven provinces including Tabora municipality that will give an opportunity for patients to be treated up to referral hospitals of different provinces and past days when a patient was receiving services only from where he was registered. improvement procedures have reached a satisfying implementation step.
T515 <no-speech> the municipal council of Songea in Ruhuma province intends to ask the army of citizens of Tanzanian to help protect the water source of Kabirika which is in Matogoro that has continued to be badly damaged by residents who feed livestock and cultivate their crops up to that water source . our correspondent Emmanuel Msigwa has prepared the following information . for three consecutive years the department of forest in the municipal council of Songea in collaboration with various stakeholders of water in Songea have been planting trees and take care of water at this source of Kabirika but these efforts have failed because some of the residents overlook the importance of this water source by grazing their livestock and cultivate their farms without taking any measures . because even if you look at those who are here you will find locals who have come here maybe five or six . locals cannot come out here . so when leaving this place those who tie their cattle here are coming to move all these wood and place them here so that they can continue to graze there . thus the biggest problem is that the local themselves are not prepared on this matter . that is why we started by cutting those trees and cultivating . <no-speech> we used to cultivate and we used to see as though to control the water appropriately . that as we cultivate it is not ourselves -- and our demand is that we let water go on its pathway and channel . it is not possible every year we bought and plant trees but someone else who just tie cattle . so we are not ready for this matter . we have the army and we have informed the provincial head about this water source along which we have been planting trees up to three years . we have failed and we ask the armed forces to help us protect this water source . meaning that the river will completely lack water and the result is that those six pumps will die out and we will not have water that can be dragged (()) and especially during drought . in the previous years this water source of Kabirika was full of water but now it has lost its ability to retain water a situation that is threatening in the coming years this water source will completely dry up if it will not be preserved well and put back the town of Songea as a desert that lack true source of water as it was in the past . my name is Emmanuel Msigwa Channel Ten Songea . <no-speech>
T215 hang out >> hang out with us every weekend Journey to Heaven' album launch, come join us for free for the launch of the album by God's Touch group, Journey to Heaven, on April 3, 2016, from two during the day to five o'clock in the evening at the University of Nairobi. Thursday Nite Live featuring Liron, Liron is a singer and a song writer of soul and jazz songs, while he is recognized for his ability to use color and different words in all his work. meet her on April 7, 2016 from eight o'clock at night inside Choices Pub and Restaurant, Industrial Area Music, Nairobi. the entrance fee is free. Nite Live featuring Sarabi, Sarabi was one of the groups that were formed by Haba na Haba Art Center and are now known as VOCAL (Voices for Change All Over). join them on April 14, 2016, at eight o'clock at night inside Choices Pub and Restaurant, Industrial Area, Nairobi. the entrance fee is free. Moonlight Festival, this a nice party for people of any age, and it will continue for twelve hours while featuring disk jockeys from within the country on April 16, 2016, at two o'clock in the afternoon, Ngong Racecourse and Golf Park, Ngong Road, Nairobi. Safari Sounds Live Band, join us every Thursday at Bobs Bar in order to get the opportunity of getting excited with Safari Sounds Live Band. every Thursday seven o'clock at night, Bobs Bar, Mombasa. Band Night Friday, come and enjoy the live music from different bands every Friday at seven o'clock, Karen Blixen Coffee Gardens, Karen, Nairobi. Masika Afrika Band Tamambo village Market brings to you the only band of Masika Afrika Band, where you will get the opportunity of being entertained by Rhumba music by Masika Afrika Band. every Saturday at eight thirty at night, Tamambo, village Market, Gigiri, Nairobi. the fitness challenge, join us in the fitness challenge show, no challenge, no change, April 2, 2016, between eight o'clock and ten thirty in the morning, at Nairobi Arboretum, Kilimani.
T214 those with severe injuries to the earthquake taken to MOI written by Angela Semaya, Dodoma. published 15 September 2016 some of the earthquake victims which happened in Kagera, those who suffered serious injuries and bone disorders, can be taken to Dar es Salaam at the Orthopaedic institute of Muhimbili National Hospital (MOI) for further examination and treatment. the Minister for Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Childhood, Ummy Mwalimu said the Ministry has organized and participated appropriately so the victims of the earthquake who got bone problems be transported to be treated at the institution. Ummy noted this at the conclusion of the debate of the 2016 General Chemistry Laboratories Bill and Chemistry Specialists Management Bill 2016. he said the government's intention is to see injured get immediate treatment so that they can recover and gave relief to all victims affected by the incident, which occurred on September 10, this year in the region and neighboring regions of Mwanza, Geita and Shinyanga. up to Tuesday, the government said the total number of 17 people died from the earthquake and 252 others were injured. the State Minister Office of the Presidential Administration and Local Government (Tamisemi), George Simbachawene said this while he was reading a state statement in the Parliament on the behalf of the Prime Minister. Simbachawene said the incident occurred at nine o'clock in the afternoon and its size was 5.7 in Richter tests. he said the injured admitted in various local hospitals were 169, the ones treated and allowed to return home are 83 to a total of 252 injuries. he said 840 residential homes came down and residential houses with cracks are 1,264 when institution buildings reported to fall or get cracks are 44.
T217 small group party evf politics
T216 these stadiums managers are the sources of conflict there is nothing as annoying as these stadiums managers giving an example those for the national stadium in the city of Dar es Salaam. what I want to say is their habit of delaying to open the gates of the stadium. they wait to open the gates at two in the afternoon, if that is not looking for chaos, then what is it! I remember about some past Simba and Yanga matches, the gates were opened at ten in the morning and people got in as they wanted. it was nice, opening the gates at one or two in the afternoon, here they want those riots so that they throw their bombs and ask for their bribes. I think we should go back to the era of national stadium manager, Hassan Chabanga Dyamale opening the stadium at 4:00 in the morning and police are there from the start to the end. these managers are a disregardful. Mashaka Florian Keko Machungwa, Dar es Salaam
T211 60 compete in NMB golf written by Mohamed Akida published: 31 October 2016 the NMB golf competitions, Monthly Mug, have been held during the weekend on Lugalo golf courses, where a total of 60 players competed. those tournaments that are being sponsored by NMB bank, are held every end of the month in that field, involving star players of NMB and Jeshi Lugalo teams. speaking during the tournament, captain of the NMB Golf Club, George Kivaria, said the tournament has been the same every month, with superiority and competitiveness enhanced. Kivaria said that the tournament involves senior and junior teams, whereby in the morning it's the seniors' turn and during the day until evening it is the juniors' turn. he called on the players of the game to come out in numbers to participate in the NMB Monthly Mug since they have become a free platform of golf stars to improve their game levels. he challenged Tanzanians who fear that game, thinking it is for the rich, by telling them NMB has erased that status and turned it to be a game that can be played by all communities. "NMB sponsorship in this competition has changed the image of golf. it is now being played by low-level people, who were previously scared of this game," said Kivaria. Michael Misabo, who is a player of the NMB squad showed clearly that the competition in that tournament is big while asking various golf stars to join them. "here are two teams of Jeshi Lugano and NMB. this is of army Lugalo involves military offices and soldiers, but this of NMB involves civilian players. "so civilian players should volunteer to join us in these end month tournaments, which through NMB sponsorship has made it competitive," he said.
T210 Bukoba earthquake shocks Samatta written by Abushehe Nondo, Maelezo published: 15 September 2016 captain of the national soccer team, Taifa Stars, Mbwanna Sammata who plays professional soccer at FC Genk Club of Belgium has expressed his sadness on the earthquake incident that occurred in Bukoba end of last week. last weekend Bukoba town was hit by an earthquake at 3:27 in the afternoon. the magnitude of that earthquake was 5.7 using a measurement of 'Ritcher' a size which is high to an extent of causing serious damages including breaking a house, injuring and 17 people losing lives. on the page of his Twitter social media account, Samatta wrote: "sorry residents of Bukoba for losing brothers as well as property from the the earthquake incident, God to grant you strength and let us also pray for those who went ahead of us". Samatta before joining Genk, he was a player for TP Mazembe of Democratic Republic of Congo, where he successfully played and won the award for Africa's best footballer among local players. besides Samatta, the other footballer who was touched by that earthquake and send his condolence message is Kenyan Victor Wanyama, who plays professional soccer at Tottenham team of England. Wanyama wrote on his social media Twitter account: "my feelings and prayers is for the people of Tanzania and Bukoba following the earthquake We are Together". Kagera Provincial Commissioner, Salum Kijuu said that after the committee of deaths of the Province and Committee of deaths in the Office of the Prime Minister and Minister of the Country, Policies, Parliament, Work, Youths, Employment and People with Special Needs, Jenista Mhagama, they have done a quick evaluation and known the needs of the affected. Kijuu mentioned some of the important requirements that are needed by the victims of that incident are construction equipment 90,000 iron sheets valued at 1.7 billion shillings, cement worth 162 million shillings, timber worth 450 million shillings and nails worth 12 million shillings total amount of the required money is 2.3 billion shillings. already, the Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa had recently encouraged businesspeople and ambassadors who contributed 1.4 billion shillings.
T198 pregnant women to get referrals to prevent deaths. it's written by Fadhili Abdallah, in Kigoma. published 23rd November 2016. the referral project for pregnant women has begun to be implemented in Uvinza district being one of the programs to enable them to move from clinics to health care centers to control birth-related deaths. the director general of the Treasure life Agency implementing the project, Doctor Nguke Mwakatundu, speaking at an event of handing over motorcycles to senior health care providers of nine health centers in the region, he said the plan will provide a response to the reduction of maternal deaths in the areas where the plan will be implemented. Doctor Mwakatundu said currently the programme has begun to be implemented at Nguruka division, in Uvinza district, Kigoma Region whereby motorcyclists will benefit from the programme by getting paid for the transport of pregnant women from rural areas to clinics and health centers. Doctor Mwakatundu said they have communicated with village chairmen to make a call as soon as a pregnant woman is having problems so she can be promptly transported to the Kliniki or health center to be treated quickly and help save her and her baby. he said in strengthening communications with the Kliniki and citizens, the Corporation has provided nine motorcycles worth 40 million shillings to senior health care providers who will use these motorcycles to visit clinics around their health centers for close management of the programme. speaking of the implementation of the programme, senior healthcare provider in Kigoma Region, Doctor Paul Chaote said he would support the implementation of the Millennium Development Plan in reducing the deaths of both pregnant women and children during childbirth. the healthcare provider in charge of Afya Bitale center, in Kigoma district, Norbert Nshemese, said that the motorcycles are a great tool for enabling them to work effectively, especially for moving around the clinics surrounding their health centers.
T212 Friday, September 23, 2016 helping a child to learn, to master a language -2. past articles suggested four ways to help a young child know how to speak. likewise, we have seen the main steps that a child passes through in learning a language. in this article, we look at a child who knows how to speak and we look at several suggestions to help him become a skillful language user in his daily communication. the environment should induce language. it is important to create an environment that gives the child the opportunity to develop his language skills. the environment includes allowing him to play with his friends for some time. playing is a good opportunity for a child to communicate with others about the principles of the concerned games, to discuss when they disagree and so forth, thus developing his ability to express himself. similarly, as often as it allows, it is good to find a baby cartoon CD (for example, Ubongo Kids), songs and other lessons and you must allow the child to watch television programs containing content that can expand his understanding. all of this, apart from expanding common sense, helps him develop his vocabulary and even learn many things he does not hear in conversations with other people at home. when he starts learning to read, picture books that attract him to learn more have a big chance of helping him to understand various things that go with his age. that is, it is best to ensure that home environment gives the child a chance to learn the language. speak with him friendly conversations with the child also motivate him to learn correct use of language. talking to him gives him the opportunity to imitate and learn the words of kindness in life. these words add a new vocabulary to the child that carry the broadest ideas that in normal circumstances, probably he might not hear from the children of his age. when speaking to him, even so, it is important to make sure the language becomes easier, open and one on one. a complex language not easy to understand easily does not help to learn. ask him questions that make him think. questions that need to be thoroughly analyzed help him develop his language skills. instead of asking him questions that require yes and no answers, or those with short answers, ask him questions that require slightly longer explanations. for example, such questions as 'why do you think so?' makes him think more about what he could easily answer for either yes or no. likewise, questions that ask him the way in which he did certain things, questions that make him think more than what he did, help him learn to use the words that he already knows in expressing himself much better. give him a chance to tell you similarly, giving him the opportunity to tell you the things he encounters helps him build his own ability to express himself. it has been proven that children who get the opportunity to narrate their issues to others, get to a better space of knowing language more than those who don't get that opportunity. when the child is obliged to explain his things in his words, he learns how to understand how to express his emotions by using the correct words and at the right time. for example; you might ask him to talk about what he sees on television, games he played at noon, the good things he learned at school/church/madrasa, who made him enjoy his day and things like that. narrating these things develops his ability to explain things. in general, parental and child-orientation is the primary source of the child's language. as you stay around him, in that way he gets help to develop his ability to express himself and become a skillful language user. track the Parental Range column in the Mtanzania Newspaper every Thursday for such articles. email: bwaya@mwecau.ac.tz it is written by Christian Bwaya
T196 representatives remember Jumbe written by Khatib Suleiman, Zanzibar published: 21 September 2016 delegates of the council of representatives have kept silent for a time of one minute in remembrance of the former President second term of Zanzibar, Aboud Jumbe Mwinyiwho died last month who was the founder and beginner of the council of representatives of Zanzibar, which is an instrument for making laws. Speaker of the council of representatives, Zubeir Ali Maulid read a biography of Mzee Jumbe and said he will be remembered for his big contribution in developing and establishing democracy, including the start of the process of making the first constitution of Zanzibar of the year 1979 together with the start of the council of representatives in the year 1980. "that is the big contribution of Jumbe in the process of democracy in Zanzibar that made the founding of the council of representatives whereby he himself called it the fortress of the citizen," he said. Maulid said the big contribution by Jumbe is contributing to the birth of the party of the revolution (CCM) in the year 1977 after the dissolution of the parties of TANY and ASP and the birth of a new party which has been successful in holding the position of power to date. Jumbe was the President of Zanzibar and Chairman of the Council of Revolution together with Vice President of the Republic of the Union from the year 1972 until the year 1984 when he was forced to resign from all the positions because of the political trouble in Zanzibar.
T197 Bill Gates an influential and wealthy man in the world who started the foundation (an institution that provides aid) that helps in development activities like medical services, tackling AIDS, improving agriculture, continuing education, and research on sustainable energy. explains that when he started visiting African villages including Tanzania, he was guessing he ages of the children that he met with. now and again the children he thought were aged seven or eight years, their true age was 12 or 13 years. many children are stunted because of lack of proper nutrition. many Tanzanian children are stunted because of the problem of malnutrition. they didn't get proper nutrition for a long time, from the time when they were in the mother's womb and the first two years of their lives. the result, the height of many children is low compared to their age. many children don't get enough food. some of them eat and get full, but their food has no good nutrition that satisfies all the needs of a body. lack of proper nutrition reduces the height of children but also affects the development of the brain, immunity and the development of limbs. proper nutrition in the first 1,000 days of a child's life, from the time while in his mother's womb until getting to two years, is important in building a child's brain, body immunity, and his limbs. if a child lacks good nutrition in this period, he cannot learn to do well at school, he becomes sickly now and then because of lack of body immunity and his limbs don't have enough strength compared to a child who got proper nutrition. children who were stunted, when they become adults and part of the nation's labor, they have a small income in the activities they do. malnutrition reduces the strength and ability of the nation and extends her people's poverty. in Tanzania, we have a big problem and of a long period of the stunted growth of children. in the year 1991, nearly half (49.7 percent) of all children under the age of five years were stunted, very short compared to their ages. half of the children were not able to build their brains, their limbs and body immunity in the measure the Almighty God willed for them because of lacking food and enough good nutrition. in the year 2010, twenty years later, 42.5 percent of all children under the age of five still are stunted. more than three million children of below five years are stunted because of lack of good nutrition. a moderate economic growth of seven percent every year has not helped much in reducing the problem of lack of good nutrition. Vietnam had a problem of lack of proper nutrition for children more than even Tanzania. in the year 1993 in every 100 Vietnamese children, 63 were stunted because of lack of proper nutrition. when it reached 2010 the percentage of stunted children reduced and reached 23 percent. even Uganda has done a little better if you compare with Tanzania. the percentage of stunted children has reduced from 45 percent in the year 1995 and reached 34 percent in the year 2011. provinces that lead in the stunted growth of children of ages below five years is Dodoma (57.1 percent), Lindi (53.3 percent), Iringa (52 percent), Rukwa (51.4 percent), Mbeya (51.3 percent), Tanga (50 percent), Kigoma (48.2 percent) and Ruvuma (47.4). provinces that are popular in the production of food especially maize, the big four- Iringa, Rukwa, Mbeya, and Ruvuma are among the provinces with stunted children that is higher than the national average. the problem of stunted growth is not hunger but to get good nutrition. provinces with little stunted growth of children are Dar es Salaam (19.7 percent), Mjini West (20.2 percent), Kilimanjaro (27.6 percent), southern Unguja (29.8 percent), southern Pemba (30.7 percent) and Mara (31 percent). the problem of stunted growth isn't caused by hunger or not being full. children can get food and be full but they lack good nutrition. they don't eat foods with protein and enough nutrients. in order to avoid stunted growth, a pregnant mother is supposed to eat good nutrition so as to give birth to a child with good health. she should suckle her child for six months first before starting to give him other foods. to suckle a child on the mother's milk for a period of six months is the best procedure for ensuring a child develops the brain and strengthens his body immunity. after six months the mother should continue suckling her child, until reaching at least two years and also give him the right food that has nutrients. together with food with starch, a child needs foods that contain protein like meat, fish, and beans. also, it is important to get vitamins and other nutrients that are found in fruits and vegetables.
T194 DMF offering training to nurses who serve disabled children. in marking one year after its founding, the Doris Mollel Foundation (DMF) has held a two day seminar for nurses who work in caring for per-term children, a seminar which was opened by the provincial commissioner for Dar Es Salaam Paul Makonda on 21 March and closed on 22 March by the minister for health, social development, gender, children and the elderly, honorable Ummy Mwalimu. the seminar that was run by German organization GIZ by Doctor Augustine Massawe from Muhimbili National Hospital has an objective of building the ability of handling challenges of helping pre-term children and teach them various skills that can be used to eliminate giving birth to pre-term children. moreover, the meeting was attended by some organizations such as Vodacom foundation, Bank M, Clouds Media Group, Amana Bank, NSSF, CBA, NHIF, Kilimanjaro Water, Western UNICEF, MAMAYE, A JHIPEGO, USAID, TICA, Vietnam embassy, Hassan Maajar trust Elizabeth Glasier pediatric aid Foundation, FHI 360, Plan International, Japanese embassy. despite that training, the DMF institute has been helping various activities in the health sector and education whereby, since it was started it has spent 152 million in partnership with sponsors who work with them whereby in that seminar they have cooperated with Amana bank and GSM institute to give an aid of five oxygen machines worth 10.3 million. according to statistics from the the health ministry, social development, gender, children and the elderly for the period 2014- 2015, 88,128 children were born per-mature and others were underweight therefore the DMT organization has planned to continue helping the health sector of which in order to attain those objectives it welcomes those who want to contribute financially to send money via M-Pesa to 244444 (Doris Mollel Foundation).
T195 60 students impregnated in Rombo written by Nakajumo James, Rombo published: 15 September 2016 the Rombo district board in Kilimanjaro province has started a special campaign in searching and taking legal action against parents who associate with their female children in hiding men who impregnate them. already a woman and her child are held custody by police in claims of cooperating in that girl's abortion. the man responsible for the pregnancy is still being sought in and out of that district. the acting director in the district, Magreth John, has said that while talking about the plans of the board dealing with the acts of primary and secondary school students stopped from learning because of pregnancy. she has said that the ongoing campaign follows 60 primary and secondary school students being impregnated in the period from January to August this year in the district. John has said that there are some of parents and guardians who cooperate with their daughters to hide the accused who impregnate them, something unacceptable and it retards the technical levels in the district. the head of Kilimanjaro province, Said Mbeky Sadiki has said that the government has been forced to direct the ministry of to check all students from primary school to secondary school whether they are pregnant.
T219 <no-speech> <no-speech> yes lets not -- be late . again we shall be late . <no-speech> <no-speech> is there a child also you will travel with or you are just traveling with wife only ? so %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh the children will also have to travel . <no-speech> will you go with them ? <no-speech> <no-speech> we will go with them children also have to travel . <no-speech> are you carrying -- are you carrying the whole family ? because there is no one to leave them with at home . <no-speech> I am carrying the whole family up to home . <no-speech> <no-speech> what is the plan mister ? <no-speech> the plan is there is a celebration happening at home we have to go . ohh . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> you were invited together with who ? <no-speech> everyone is invited . <no-speech> <no-speech> my friends even if you have friends invite them . really mister you are saying and if I invite someone . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> you have to inform the person early mister so that -- so that he can also prepare himself and be able to come ? <no-speech> <no-speech> there are some who have been informed . <no-speech> <no-speech> is it therefore a big ceremony or is it small ? there are some who have %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> a big ceremony . <no-speech> <no-speech> really .
T193 the government launches a special program to improve health. written by Lucy Lyatuu. published: 27th October 2016. the government has launched a special program nationwide for improving healthcare known as the 1000 days package that will be used to implement various nutritional problems in the country with a purpose to reducing children nutritional disorders and insufficient blood in pregnant and breastfeeding women. the 1,000 days package is a facilitative tool that uses various ways of communication aimed to influence behavioral changes and attitudes about nutrition in the community, creating awareness of the responsibility of parents and guardians who are within the first 1,000 days of human life that are counted since conception until the baby attains two years old. at the launch of that plan, yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, the Permanent Secretary, Office of the President, regional administration and local government (TAMISEMI), Doctor Chainab Chaula said the 1000-days package will be introduced by the government as a special national package. she said a program developed by the Good Start Nutrition project in collaboration with the Tanzania Food and Nutrition Center (TFNC) worked in six regions in the country that also helped to alleviate the problem of nutritional disorders. regarding nutritional disorders, Doctor Chaula said it was an invisible phenomenon, although it is a threat to social, economic and need to be addressed and a solution found. she said the government is planning to coordinate efforts made by stakeholders in the fight against any kind of nutritional disorders in the country. she said the 1,000 days package will be used by various stakeholders as district and regional nutrition officials, community health workers to stimulate positive behavior aimed at reducing the problem of blood insufficiency in pregnant and breastfeeding mothers and nutritional disorders for children under the age of two. she said emphasis has been placed on improving work and roles in society that are crucial in reducing nutritional disorders for mothers and children. the executive director of the Food and Nutrition Institute, Doctor Joyce Kaganda said the 1,000 days package has six rooms each with a special identification mark, each room has been preserved with various publications promoting actions and positive nutritional behavior at each stage of growth development of the child.
T190 pregnant evf child birth neighbor
T191 1,459 pregnant women in Simiyu found with HIV December 16, 2016 1,459 pregnant women from five districts in Simiyu province have been established to be infected with HIV who are equal to 1.6 percent. the statistics were been provided yesterday by the chief doctor of the province, Mageda Kihulya at the launch of collective service campaign and prevention of the spread of HIV virus in the province through the project that is under AMREF Health Africa non-governmental organization in partnership with the government. according to Kihulya, the pregnant women were those who were attending clinic whose health was tested in order to fulfill the program of preventing the spread of HIV from mother to child. Kihulya said the pregnant women had their health tested in the period of January to December this year. "92,964 pregnant women were tested when they got to dispensaries and health centers for clinical services, in that period 262,862 citizens in Simiyu province got counseling and testing services... among them, 8,631 were discovered to be infected with HIV which is 3.3, percent below the national standard 5.1. "the provincial government has continued to put up various strategies to make sure that the spread slows," he said. he mentioned the strategies as guiding and counseling, tests, male circumcision, contraceptives and family planning, detection services of transmission in infants, care and treatment in the infected. on his side, the official guest at the launch of that campaign, governing secretary in the province, Jumanne Sagini said that the campaign will be conducted in the whole province in the district by June 2017. he added that, up to 30 December this year, more than 6,000 people will be reached by the campaign, free health testing services will be offered together with being given guidance and counseling.
T358 Tundu Lissu 'tastes' a hand ball in Singida East. the Singida East parliamentary aspirant on the Chadema ticket, Tundu Antiphas Mughwai Lissu, has said that he is afraid the general election won't be free and fair claiming that the police force has been prepared to ensure he isn't announced as the winner. Lissu has said that while talking to journalists in that region where he noted that he has gotten news through the phone from one of the region's bank manager in the city and two police, that the police force has arranged for a great force to reverse the voters decision, so that the CCM aspirant can be announced as the winner. Tundu Lissu who is Chadema's attorney general, said during different times, he was called by two police officers including FFU, giving him the same information he was given by the bank manager. he said that those police told him that the police force will use three caravan vehicles (which are used to pour tear gas) and a big group of police and that they've been ordered by their leaders, to ensure that no matter what, him (Tundu) is not announced as the parliamentary winner. that aspirant said that in a normal mind, the police force should not use too much force in the region of Singida East where since the campaigns began, there has been no incident or signs of breaking the peace. in another step, Tundu Lissu has promised that if he will be defeated legally, he will agree with the result and he will not have anything to do with it. but if he will be defeated through dirty methods, he won't agree with those dirty results. and the police commander of Singida region, ACP Sedoyeka, said they want Lissu because he is a lawyer, to confirm his suspicions, then the police force can take action. in that state the revolutionary party (CCM) has stopped Mister Jonathan Njau from fighting with Tundu Lissu in this election.
T359 ditch syn trench
T354 <misc> Dar es Salaam city in Tanzania is among the fastest growing cities causing an increase in population as a result of being the center of business while many government offices together with various organizations having been directed to one area which is in the middle of the city . as a result of that situation there has been a major problem of transport for many city residents together with the traffic jams on the roads . those major transport needs forced the leadership of Dar es Salaam together with the surface and marine transport authority SUMATRA to authorize motorbike transport together with rickshaws to carry passengers into town in order to help citizens to get to their activities quickly . in the neighborhoods' mirrors from Dar es Salaam city today it's focusing on motorbike transport which to others has been a big savior to transport but also there have been various challenges that arise from motorbike transport . (()) must be arrested motorbikes aren't allowed to get into town . this issue has for real brought a very major problem to citizens especially those who depend on this transportation . we are surprised by this transport we don't know if we should say it's the government or the city or what . because in transport if you look at our city's infrastructure for real doesn't satisfy the needs of say maybe a person having the swiftness of entering and exiting due to the queue of vehicles . <no-speech> motorbikes by a certain measure help very much on all aspects -- a journey on which a person can take maybe half an hour can take ten minutes on a motorbike but by a vehicle you can for example take up to three or four hours if you're going to Ugungo . yes right now concerning reports on accident of the motorbike people I think right now the reports have reduced . <no-speech> and it has reduced because after they were told not to get into town many of them are in the neighborhoods right now . <no-speech> (()) they do their businesses in the neighborhoods and they therefore don't get into town that much . a large percentage of motorbike people right now have become self-aware unlike the past . because when many of them started out with motorbikes -- many of those who took motorbikes were vagrants therefore they were happy riding at just that speed (()) those speeds came to cause harm -- a lot of harm and accidents have increased . many became crippled many lost lives therefore right now they have become self-aware that it is an activity that brings income to raise and educate their children do you see ? it has become employment to them and right now many are doing well %incomplete I am telling you on my side as a driver I'd like to talk about one thing because you will find that a big percentage of motorbike riders haven't trained for it . you're trained today and get on the road tomorrow . therefore that's why you will find that there are many accidents because you can find a person who doesn't know the law . he doesn't know how to ride at certain areas and what is important to him is getting a section of what he is aiming for . therefore you will find many things like that happen therefore you can find that while going to visit (()) he just appears unexpectedly . <no-speech> you find then by the time you're breaking and everything you have already knocked him . that's it what I am asking is for the government to put an emphasis in overseeing and managing them well and to check -- while giving these motorbike riders licenses they should check and ask how is this person ? therefore there's someone who has little brains -- and another person who hasn't gone to school and doesn't know the laws well what should be done when accidents increase ? increase . that the real problem if you observe right now is that motorbikes have spread very much and then those riding these motorbikes have become many . even on the roads if you observe you see that there is more business . now those ones have got to a point of spoiling for those people who have a good intention of doing this job . because you'll observe a person you find him not wearing a helmet he has shaved his hair mohawk style and on his feet are sandals in that way he can't be understood . now you will find that this situation has reached a point of people being chased away from town but because of the bad manners of riders and a lot of chaos on the roads . their riding sir they ride so recklessly . <no-speech> they like appearing from nowhere and cutting between vehicles %incomplete the government is surprised to -- by their performance -- of its work . because if %incomplete
T355 those who haven't registered with Brela to be hunted down. written by our writer published: 10 October 2016 the agent of registration of businesses and license (BRELA) has given two months to businesspeople who are using business names without registration, they should do so in a hurry. after that time has passed, there will be a search in the whole country so that it will identify all those who are using business names without registration and they will be taken to courts or to pay fines. while speaking with the journalist in Dar es Salaam city yesterday, the Executive Director of Brela, Frank Kanyusi said in that job of providing education and to officiate the names of businesses and the company that continues in different provinces, it has been identified that a lot of businesspeople are using business names without registering them. "the law of business names wants a businessperson to register his business name within 28 days from the time you started to use it," said Kanyusi and added that to this he will have broken the law of business names. he said don't worry the name of the business was made easy through internet by visiting this website www.brela.go.tz in order to get more information about how to register a business. he wanted the businesspeople should not only register the business name only but they also go to the the revenue authority (TRA) in order to get how to pay tax and continue with there council to get business licensees. "in order to boost business the government enable to expand tax collection and it be gainful to the businesspeople by building good business environment to do business," Kanyusi has emphasized. he said Brela have made an arrangement to go around the region to educate to boost business and company names because it has being discovered that the citizens have no knowledge about boosting business. till now Brela has done various visits in the Mwanza, Mara, Geita and Simiyu regions and this week they will visit the Shinyago region for a week in order to encourage businesspeople to formalize their business. he emphasized that they must make sure that business is being formalized so that the can recognize the taxpayers who contributed national revenue and make Tanzania become middle class economy by the year 2015.
T356 property evf land bank
T357 a market burns down in Sumbawanga. written by Peti Siyame, Sumbawanga. published: 31st October 2016. Nelson Mandela farmers main market located in Mazwi Ward, Sumbawanga Municipality in Rukwa region has burned down the previous night and caused great losses. the fire that lasted over eight hours exploded at seven o'clock on Saturday night and consumed shops and business sheds within that market that is the second largest and most famous market in Sumbawanga town after the main market located in Mazwi Ward. the exploding of that fire created great annoyance to the residents of that town. the market borders with the Nelson Mandela Stadium that has not suffered any damage. some of the witnesses told this newspaper that many products including clothes, poultry, refrigerators and fruits were burned, while the majority of victims allegedly had no insurance for their business, while the capital was borrowed from various financial institutions. speaking to the newspaper at the accident scene, Sumbawanga municipal mayor, Justine Malisawa said the fire exploded seven at night and continued raging until midnight and resulted in a significant loss in which young people pretending to be good Samaritans were stealing the property. "the market is owned by the Sumbawanga municipality, which officially started in 2011, it is also a major source of domestic revenue, its burning has caused a huge loss to the municipality, as we were collecting between 700,000 and one million shillings a day," said the mayor, the firefighters delayed to arrive. I give special thanks to the police force who managed to control the petty criminals who were continuing with looting in the market, the source of the fire has not been known and admitted that the market had no insurance. Sumbawanga District Commissioner, Doctor Halfani Haule said the disaster committee would evaluate the actual losses caused by the fire and the initial plans were to transfer the businesspeople of the market at the sites that were reserved in Majengo, Sabasaba, Sabato and Kizwite market. the regional police commander, George Kyando said no one was arrested for looting incidents that took place within the market that night.
T350 Kigwangalla nabs a fake viroba factory written by Ally Daud, explanation published: 16 November 2016 Assistant Minister for health, social development, gender, the elderly and children doctor Hamis Kigwangalla has led a task force in a search for industries that make fake alcoholic spirits, including viroba and others and nabbed a fake factory that is in Sinza in Dar es Salaam. Doctor Kigwangalla has said that the search being conducted by that ministry in conjunction with the Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) has nabbed a fake factory that manufacturers the viroba, konyagi, Smirnoff and Zedi brands of alcohol that is in Sinza. "we are conducting this inspection in conjunction with a government squad so that we can eliminate illicit alcohol that are manufactured haphazardly and without following quality standards in the development and health of Tanzanians," explained the assistant minister. moreover, Doctor Kigwangalla has added that in that search they have nabbed the factory together with material used to make illicit alcohol such as konyagi bottles, bottle tops, labels, sachets and other materials used in making alcohol. Doctor Kigwangala has said the search has disclosed that the manufacturers use local brews and spirit in making hard liquor, something that is very dangerous to the health of Tanzanians especially youth. in that search, they also arrested shops that sell that liquor in the regions of Mwenge and Manzese in Dar es Salaam under the supplier Yusuf Kalambo, a resident of Kimara who is currently being sought by the police force for more investigation. also, Doctor Kigwangalla has commanded operators of those shops to close their shops immediately and be held by police until when investigation will be complete so that the law takes its course, otherwise to be fined or invalidate their business licenses. he said that the work of searching for industries that produce hard liquor is done by the ministry in association with TFDA and the police will go on until when fake products will disappear in the country.
T351 pilot syn aviator
T352 in Manyara province . poor participation of women and youth in various aspects of decision-making is a challenge that seems to hinder some development activities in the community . that challenge seems to affect more rural areas where many development projects require the inclusion of these groups . our author Zacharia Mtigandi has provided the following information from Manyara . <no-speech> <no-speech> its impact is that that power of decision-making remains in one axis who is a father . whereas if the youth is involved in a family could offer good ideas rather than relying just only on a father to provide all decisions as head of the family . as you look up starting from the village you find they have (()) powers in various levels of leadership . you find those who we say exceed us in age . while the national workforce are youths . so youths are forgotten at the village level and even at the national level as well . (()) what will appear later is that because this community has not been educated they will have difficult life because they do not know their various rights %incomplete (()) Manyara province is a reflection of poor participation of groups of women and youths at the level of decision-making . all sub-location heads are men . no woman have got a chance to be a chairperson of the sub-location in my location . and at the level of -- of the village all members of the village council those elected all are men except those seven positions of women which are same as -- are same as one third that is only seven women in all twenty-five villages . the local administration in the country has begun the process of educating the community to see the importance of incorporating youth groups and women in decision-making . Seif Hassan is a communications consultant of that community who argues that that exercise of offering education has begun in the district (()) as part of a pilot project following research . in the village administration you find that the council of the village itself has two or three women . therefore it revealed that there is lack of good relationship . local administration advises the community to do away with customs and traditions that prevent a youth or a woman in being involved in various levels of decision-making . Zacharia Mtigandi Star T_V Manyara . <no-speech>
T353 license hyp permission
T174 Kazungu becomes Deputy Permanent Secretary Finance written by our writer published: 14 December 2016 President John Magufuli has appointed Doctor Khatib Kazungu to be Deputy Permanent Secretary Ministry of Finance and Planning. a statement that was released by the Director of Communications State House, Gerson Msigwa, in the City of Dar es Salaam yesterday explained that Doctor Kazungu takes the place left vacant by Doto James who was appointed Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Finance and Planning. before that appointment, Doctor Kazungu was the District Commissioner of Mtwara in Mtwara Province.
T175 Tuesday, November 18, 2014 "there is no relationship of a parent's education with the quality of upbringing"- researchers the concept is that the high level of education that a parent possesses implies the quality and effectiveness of the upbringing. in western countries, for example, the quality of upbringing in the sense of understanding of the child's psychological needs has been linked to parental education that goes along with the accountability of the upbringing. the situation seems to be different in Sub-Saharan countries. surveys conducted at different times in Tanzania, Botswana, Nigeria and Lesotho indicate that there is no direct relationship between education, income or parental success and the quality of their children's upbringing. instead, in an astonishing manner, non-educated parents and with non-dignified work are more likely to be more responsible than their colleagues who have learned from the Degree onwards. in addition, these surveys show when Highly educated parents do not find/do not have time to stay and communicate with their children accordingly, still at least striving to create a home-based environment in the form of books, television, and other sports facilities for children. on the other hand, non-educated parents or dignified work, have seemed to have a relationship with the children, spending more time teaching children the most acceptable behavior in their communities. however, these parents have found it difficult to create a friendly home learning environment for their home as their well-educated colleagues. home environment almost all researchers I mentioned at the end of this article agree that without regard to education or parental income, home environment and parental attitudes are mainly affecting the childhood growth and upbringing of children. while home environment refers to the atmosphere of love shown by parents to children, parental relationships, parental dynamics, time spent by parents at home and access to learning materials; parental attitudes, on the other hand, are parents' expectations for their children, efforts to understand and respond to the emotional needs of the child, how to encourage and even punish children. however, the findings of such surveys show that most African parents start caring for, monitoring, redirecting and interfering with their children's activities when they reach adulthood. the main reason mentioned is that during this period children begin to show behaviors that are not pleasing to parents, which are primarily a result of neglected emotional needs from the past. before then, parents regardless of education believe that there is no great need for force in creating a child's behavior. the meaning of these results to parents in Africa, classroom education does not help a person to be a good parent or not even do not make the parent fulfill his role. what is apparent is that the level of education goes hand in hand with the increase in other responsibilities that parents find themselves paying more attention than upbringing. on the other hand, the lack of these responsibilities becomes beneficial to the child though the challenge remains accurate understanding of the needs of the child. obviously, the social and economic changes we witness in our countries, bring new challenges to the upbringing. when an educated parent is struggling to give up his time to deal with these challenges outside the family, a non-educated parent is also coping with these challenges at home in his own way. in one way or another, the kind of work we do as parents, our attitudes and other challenges affects how we deal with the emotion of the child. it may be time for us as parents and caregivers to develop a culture to understand the important steps of child growth in order to identify the needs and problems of children since the baby is born. research team and researchers? a lot of research has been done on the needs and problems of children in the continent of Africa. why do these surveys not reach targeted people? one major reason is that many surveys focus on promoting professional knowledge alone. it is done for the sake of researchers to communicate with them and not directly apply to solving real problems. that is why many results end up decorating cabinets for libraries of educational institutions irrespective of the public. together with many challenges, this blog aims at being a connection between those libraries and parents. for several weeks we will review the psychological needs of various childhood ages from birth to 20 years for the following division: 0 to 3, 3 - 6, 6 - 12 and 12 years - 20. the goal is not to direct or advise anyone what to do but to try to spread the information that is available but does not reach where it should. this article has been developed with the help of texts, theses, and books of the following researchers: A. Blair, I. Omari, T. Mwamwenda, D. Mbilinyi, A. Mbise, A. Oyewole and C. Nyinamuntu who all have statements in the education and development of the child. it is written by Christian Bwaya
T176 Ole Nasha: do not sell foodstuff out of the country written by Sifa Lubasi, Dodoma. published 08 September 2016 the government has asked farmers not to sell foodstuff out of the country and instead store the food due to the weather alert showing that there is a possibility of the country being hit by Lanina. speaking during the launch of a website for the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) William Ole Nasha Assistant Minister for livestock farming and fisheries, said it is best for farmers to store food and the government would ensure that are food reserves whereby NFRA and the combined crop board continue to buy 200,000 tones of reserve foodstuff while the demand is 150,000 tones of maize. read HabriLeo September 9 for more information.
T177 Reuben Kagaruki a resident of Markaz Ukonga Mazizini in Ilara district in the city of Dar es Salaam is in looking for his house girl Rudia Jackson who is nineteen years of age who went missing since Saturday fourth August this year . that lady is claimed to have been sent to the shop to buy a voucher at around one in the afternoon and when she left she never came back despite unsuccessful efforts of looking for her . <no-speech> home on the fourth of this month going to the shop to buy a voucher it was about one in the afternoon from (())(()) where we stay to Mombasa but from today -- since that day to date she has not showed up . all efforts of looking for her have been in vain . we therefore wish to inform good Samaritans who come across her to communicate with us for more help so that she is found . I am done . to anyone who will succeed in seeing the lady is requested to report to any police station or communicate with the family she used to stay with through cell phone number zero seven eight four eight four zero four six eight or zero seven six nine three four three four six nine . dear viewer that report winds up the local news .
T170 Tuesday, October 11, 2016 the responsibility of a parent as a child's first teacher many studies on the learning environment have continued to emphasize that good education for the child begins at home. the presence of a friendly learning environment at home gives a child an opportunity to grow in understanding and prepares the child well to learn before he starts school officially. basically, a parent is the first teacher who can enable the child to learn well. a child learns to walk, talk, eat, house chores and so forth to be of help to the parent. if a parent will recognize their role as the child's teacher and execute it as required, the teacher's work at school is made easier. let's look at four important areas that can help you as a parent, to execute your role as your child's teacher in that same home environment. find learning materials for the child. a child needs to be stimulated mentally, physically, emotionally and relationally from birth. when the child is stimulated early, his understanding becomes ready to learn even before meeting his teacher in school. to be stimulated appropriately, he needs important learning materials. for example, you can ensure that the child gets colored pencils for drawing, papers and exercise books for writing, cartoons and various story books on CD-DVD, magazines and children's books, jumping ropes, bottle tops/materials for counting and other materials he can use to make his mind innovative. many parents, especially from urban areas, use a lot of money to buy for their children already manufactured materials like "cars", "airplanes", "phones", "house hold items" and so forth. even so, these materials have the danger of denying a child the chance of developing creativity and acquiring the knowledge of making things that go along with his needs. bring him raw materials like boxes, a pair of scissors and gum that will help him to make the real things that he needs. in doing this, a child develops the ability to think and realize what he thinks. build for him the eagerness for self learning. eagerness is the strength that pushes someone to be ready to put an effort in fulfilling the goals he set for himself. parent, as the first teacher of the child, you have the responsibility of building for your child a big eagerness for wanting to learn. for example, in order to develop his eagerness, you can build him psychologically to enable him to believe that he has the ability and he is able. the belief that he is able is very important and it will be his pillar when he learns. you can also give him examples of how education and knowledge are able to help someone solve problems they meet. show him the opportunities ahead of him by relating them to his success in the classroom. give him examples of famous scientists who discovered great things that changed people's lives. narrate to him news of famous lawyers, civil rights activists, doctors who save people's lives, teachers, designers of famous buildings, road engineers, journalists and many other cadres. these narrations build a major eagerness that increases the passion for education in a child. at other times, narrations that begin with money against knowledge discourages children from putting efforts on education. if you want your child to love education, show him how that education sometimes is more important than money. follow up on his progress. a child needs what he does to be recognized and make his parent happy. when he knows that you're following up on his progress, he will put in an effort to work harder so that he can continue getting praise. give him an opportunity to feel boastful by recognizing the effort he puts in learning. do communications with his school teacher to know how he is doing. when he discovers that you're following up on the goings on in his school, he will know you value him and he will be eager to do for you to know how able he is. it's true sometimes you can meet news that you don't like if you don't go to school. maybe his success level isn't the same as your expectations. no reason to give up on him. instead of deriding and showing him how he is "a couch", show the big faith you have in him. confirm to him that you know how he can do much better. furthermore, discover the special areas he showed his ability and if possible share with him in his other favorite activities. when he sees you value the things he likes even if they aren't educational, he won't be ready to bring you down in things he knows you expect from him including education. sometimes children fail to do well because we don't give them the help they need. build a process of helping him academically. sit with him in the evening, ask if he has been given what work to do at home. give him help but don't cripple and make him dependent. by doing that, you'll make him have a big passion for proving to you how able he is. make him get used to following a daily time table. many families don't have an environment that enables a child to learn in calmness. an example is when adults who live with the child, use a lot of time watching television and listening to the radio in a way that prevents children from doing something different. in other environments, children get lost in too much playing that isn't controlled in the neighborhood again without parental observation. these things can't help a child learn. ensure the environment at your home gives the child an opportunity of reading by himself without disturbance. in the same way, help him to plan his affairs according to age. a tradition of a timetable is built. when he comes back from school, for example, he should know how long he will play, what time he will shower, what time he does household chores, take part in joint worship, being told bedtime stories and sleep. alongside with a timetable that doesn't change now and again, make an effort of reducing some of his responsibilities that can be a hindrance to learning. although sharing in menial work is very important to a child's development, put an effort in discovering what time these jobs could be a hindrance. the foundation of a good education doesn't start in school and a child can't like school hastily without your effort parent. if you fulfill your duty, you'll be surprised how he will learn easily. read the knowledge magazine in the Mwanachi newspaper every Thursday for articles like these. write to me at bwaya@mwecau.ac.tz written by Christian Bwaya
T171 the effects of not doing the act of marriage for a long time. hello, I wish to bring this to you; I believe you will learn especially to those without knowledge, when you stay for long without having sex, these are the effects: frequent anger on petty issues, more interest in viewing nude pictures, forgetfulness, interest in love stories, very heavy flow during menstruation (female), rushing into other people's businesses (a habit of involving yourself in matters that do not concern you), headaches, having a stiff back (male), easy infection by the love jinn, lose of efficiency in work, quite easy contraction of HIV in case of unprotected intercourse with an infected person, you can develop a new habit you never had before to be an alternative like drunkenness etc.
T172 lottery club of Dar es Salaam Mzizima has awarded an award to deputy principle of university of Tumaini campus of Dar es Salaam Professor (()) Marie for her contribution in the education sector in the universities for a period of sixty years that she served different universities in the country . speaking to us just after receiving the award Professor Marie has said that those successes have resulted from her availing herself to do work on call . in her period of lecturing she has produced leaders and other lecturers that are examples to be emulated in the society . you can do wonders -- do wonders . the students have knowledge in the head . they need -- support . and we do not just have to sit and wait for the other person to do that work . it is us to do that work . to understand mathematics there are (()) there are youths there are books there are issues of -- issues %incomplete
T173 misleading against the disabled . and the other thing that was inserted into the constitution being recommended is the right of every disabled person to education using special equipment . what is the meaning of this ? (()) that we see in the constitution it talks about the right of every Tanzanian to get education and advance to the desired level and the government will avail the environment to enable that . but if you leave it like that and not recognize that a disabled person should get that education through the use of special equipment then you can't realize it . and special equipment here means that for the deaf the speech machine which we call (()) should be identified though the sign language teachers and the sign language advancement should be identified now you look at the getting of this education alongside the (()) one where in fifty-five it says that it recognizes the right of the sign language usage sign language (()) braille writing means advanced . this one now -- the sign language is for the sake of the deaf the tactile signing is for the deaf and blind the braille writing is for the sake of those who are blind and advanced writing is for the sake of underdeveloped (()) people and it has also identified other means of communication . this goal is to ensure that these things are recognized in the education sector . supplementary books and textbooks have been put in those writings which are friendly to the disabled to read . it is a light being developed to consider the needs of the disabled equipment are being released and distribute to the schools but the special needs also mean the infrastructure in schools . the reader alongside the (()) which has been directed that the government will avail an environment which will enable the disabled go anywhere they may wish to . the environment and the infrastructure here has meaning that infrastructure and the school's buildings should be friendly and reachable to the disabled . but this also touch on modes of transport . how does that child go to school and does he board the normal buses ? have they considered (()) with love on this one ? the right of a person as to how they access education using special equipment though there is another right %incomplete
T178 is it a must we all talk in one particular voice? there is an issue that has been disheartening me whenever I'm listening to radio or television programs. that issue is, the habit of some of the presenters especially of the entertainment programs imitating the voices of other prominent presenters. in a surprising incident, you will hear a presenter of a particular program forcing to block their nose or talk fast while pronouncing English words with an objective of sounding like another presenter. my belief is that it's not a must for a presenter to imitate the voice of his colleague if they want to succeed, but he can talk in his voice that he was born with and still be appreciated by his listeners or viewers. Victoria. M, Temeke, Dar es Salaam
T179 the main fears of Peshawar's residents is now mice Peshawar, Pakistan despite living with the fear of bombing attacks, residents of the city of Peshawar, Pakistan are currently living in panic of being attacked by mice. the residents say that for now, instead of fear of terrorist attacks of Taliban militants, they have turned their backs against mice, who have injured them by eating thousands of chickens, besides spreading a serious illness that has led to the death of one child. one of them is Naseer Ahmad, who has been in the front line to deal with the mice. he says that in the past 18 months, he has been able to kill more than 100,000 mice. "this is the responsibility I have made after seeing my friend taking his wife to hospital after a mouse bite," said Ahmad, as he continued to search for the mice in Zaryab in the area. "he was forced to use 4,500 shillings to be given an injection to prevent the disease," he said. the mice are said to be 22 to 30 centimeters long. by AFP
T101 you have told me through humor now Hamadi continue . you know it gets to a point where even the parent buying considers my child came from the first until the seventh . he has come from the seventh until form four there about how many years ? ten and above -- ten and above is it ? eleven -- now when you check it out there as he comes out -- while in form four he cannot get into the estate and do anything therefore years of form four cannot besides -- besides to walk with certificates in the estates to ask for a job I am sure if we had even practical on what we do may be even if they enter an expert because there is a period of games in school . why don't they even put a period of construction ? that there in school you agree certain time the expert you go to show how to off load bricks how to mix concrete how to -- when he get into the estate he has -- he has experience of certain things . better than sitting he -- he holds on just there is a history word of history he knows just words of history when he goes to the estates how will it help him ? as an expert you will be enhanced by the type of teaching and any education that is also improved and even us parents we will have confidence in our education . therefore we shall not be able to think that -- I need to buy pardon no therefore you fully believe that the level of success that a child will have is suitable -- wonderful -- pardon no we have come to the end of our second topic Kaki and I studied primary in the past ten and how many years ago ? that is I have known him for close to fifteen years . (()) for fifteen years . therefore I promise you Tanzanian me and him we did not eat sweetly . totally ahh we are not eating at all and we our children will not eat and many solution have been offered by the Tanzanians saying let's improve our standards of education and when the parents believe in the education system we shall not have the need to remove remove money in order to buy examination . and me the advice that I can offer is that if you are used to bush contribution you are crippling your intellect and you become impaired in your intellectual capacity it becomes %incomplete come again you become disabled first . secondly those are the results we are studying -- the research that says twelve thousand class seven pupils have succeeded but they fail to read and write . anyway we have come to the end of Minibuzz program if you have comments or complaint and confusion just continue watching this program . I believe that each day we will talk about things you have that concern your life but for now let's know the topic of tomorrow by meeting (()) at the bus stop (()) . <misc>
T100 put on your steel helmet we go to the streets and demand for education instead of language June 20, 2012 to the minister of tension and vex, Uzitoni Street, Bongo. dear Frank, how are you my love? how are you doing there? there are no upheavals? or you are already called freemason? please tell me, because I nowadays see that as the modern trend, if not political insults. anyone with little effort, freemason. people of a particular party, freemason. that is to say, there is something I want to know because these confusions of something without a head or legs are annoying me. so who suddenly came up with the freemason topic and why and for whose benefit? why have we lived for all these years without hearing about freemasons? suddenly everything, freemason, freemason. when I asked Binti Bosi she really laughed. then she told me that the freemasons started as an association of technicians so that through their unity, be able to defend their interests against masters who had the habit of exploiting them. masters are just masters. from one generation to another. that is why I feel that even here, it's our masters who have stirred up all these controversies so as to cover up the fact that they are exploiting workers. and to make people have doubt between themselves instead of uniting. but dear first, I have to admit my arrogance. since BB appeared to know the concerns of the founding technicians, I had to ask her with my silly mischief. "but you sister, are you also a freemason?" let her laugh my love. "you Hidaya, you don't have the intellect or what?" I don't know freemasons, neither do I have a reason to know them more than what I have read when they started that chaos. first, it's not free. they that hold freemason's signs have their own reasons, and it's especially a strategy to hide their things. "brokers?" "ha ha ha and you Hidaya? it is truly possible that they are dealers since they are the ones who don't want us to look at them and they perceive us and make us feel selfish instead of focusing on the reality." "like the old man with cup bearing everything." "alright. and as we are, taking in everything given to us like a toilet." "but the newspapers have also contributed." whose newspapers? aren't they these ones? together with selling their newspapers, they are just one team." then we really laughed but it's very annoying. my younger sister recently wrote to me that there is an organization that came with a plan to assist girls who had been impregnated and left desolated. now they wanted to join the others who have excitement and without any skills and tried to discourage them by calling them freemasons. actually, even when a person struggles to rescue himself, people's mouth are itchy as if they have eaten nettle (and also talk recklessly). luckily, my sister cannot listen to that nonsense but others were afraid. I mean, us Bongolians don't jump into things at all. and I see we youths are the worst. the first to hear rumors and spread it. instead, we should look at the reality. recently, I for real was watching the celebrations of the day of the African child. I was compelled to laugh in pain. that we have been respected as leaders in celebrating Africanism. therefore, I expected to see the children full in a large amount. I expected that those giving opinions and facilitating the debate to be the children. where... or maybe we say that the elderly have entered the second childhood. all the speeches of adult people. their audience in a language that the children who are the majority cannot comprehend, they are adults if not mad people. only a few children were seen as though stacked there with superglue to justify that it's their day. this for sure, lie to a child among the children. what was their work there? okay, at least other organizations involved children such as center for human rights. again I was very impressed with children there because they really talked. is not about commemorating hypocritically that the children do not still have the required opportunity. those children condemned as to why there is a great disparity between their schools and those of the affluent. how will a child in a class with one hundred and fifty pupils compete with a child in a class of thirty pupils? the education of cheat the child again is similar to two children to fight with fists while the arm of one is tied. it's not logical at all. our bosses who talk about children's rights, don't they see those differences? okay, and when I'm upset about it, the activists reminded us that the objective of the day is not the bosses' speeches but the operations of the Soweto youth against being taught in a language they don't want, and they don't understand, that is imperialism. that's when I got the idea my dear. what is the difference between our schools and those in Soweto? we the majority are being taught in a language that we completely do not understand. and as they expand these poverty schools, then the numbers continue to increase of those sentenced to a four-year jail term without understanding. then I later tried my idea on BB. she halfheartedly accepted because she is enrolled in those schools with few pupils and many teachers. but she was eventually compelled in her heart to accept. "you know Hidaya, they have done a lot of research that shows that many students, cannot answer well, questions of grade two when they are in grade ten." for sure it's of no significance. 'better people be taught in a language they understand.' 'it's true sister.' 'my objective is to get various skills and not to pour out the English language in front of the whites or their followers.' allow BB to laugh. "you Hidaya, is a trouble maker?" "no sister, it annoys me how thousands of students are disillusioned not because they are dumb but because they don't have a language. and how could they get the language when they have grown up in an environment without television? 'I have brothers who were very bright in primary school but the English language in secondary finished them.' "so what do you want to do?" "what did the Soweto students do?" they demonstrated in protest. and they continued demonstrating despite being shot and arrested and imprisoned without a mistake. and their efforts bore fruit because even the struggles to fight for independence became stronger. 'do you see sister?' why don't the students here start demonstrating as well?" "the problem is that here in South Africa, they were being forced to speak the colonizers' language that is not spoken anywhere outside their country. but English is an international language..." "ah, where sister? yes, it is an international language to few people. and it can be taught as a subject. but we the majority want just to understand the concepts." "I have not denied. but people really have a stereotype about the language to the extend that if you propose to do away with it, they will demonstrate in protest ha ha ha." 'maybe sister.' but I think it is important to make them understand. for sure it annoys me. it also offended me and look here. why am I working without anxiety? the pan does not speak English. nor the broom. BB laughs again. "then let's try. we see how many will resist coming out of the classroom. the problem is they do not want to appear naive hence the reason they will just remain silent." "and they will call me freemason." "that's it!" we all laughed. but how do you see it dear? you cannot convince your colleagues to stand and begin protesting against the language used for teaching that disadvantages us, the majority? this language is another way of favoring children of the rich leaving us hopeless with our helplessness. put on your steel helmet we go to the streets and demand for education rather than language. the one that loves you in all languages, Hidaya.
T103 <no-speech> the government of North Korea has announced that it has revived its nuclear systems that are in Pyongyang after seeing that its security is in danger and the country of South Korea doesn't have a good will with that country . that announcement of North Korea has been issued being six years since that country closed its nuclear mills as part of an agreement that was reached between North Korea and the international community . <no-speech> just after that country closing its mills in the year two thousand and seven the international community gave that country various donations as it had promised . North Korea has said that it will now use its nuclear equipment to design deadly weapons and to prepare itself for any attacks from South Korea or America . <no-speech> South Korea has expressed its shock by that measure of North Korea and urged that country to respect the international agreement . however that country has said it will not revenge in the event North Korea starts provocation . America has once again warned against that measure by North Korea while China which has supported that country for many times has said it is good for North Korea to abandon its plan that is dangerous . <no-speech>
T102 Celine Dion has made this statement after the boy from Gabon performs wonders of her song already luck has fallen to a 17-year-old boy from Gabon after a Pop musician from Canada, Mrs. Celine Dion explains that she is ready to meet the boy who fulfilled his dreams in the music scene. the boy known as Samuel, his video has given rise to popularity in the social media it is also after being shaken by Pop star lady Celine Dion who shared it through her account where it has been seen by millions of people all over the world while still praising it and others going furher asking Celine Dion to take the boy in her work. on her Facebook page, Celine Dion wrote: Samuel, your talent is too big, like your voice. I hope we have the opportunity to meet one day." wrote Celine Dion on her Facebook page and compiled the piece of song. she added: "I have been touched by the spread of my songs to the whole world. I hope we have a chance to meet one day. continue your dream and one day will come true. more is singing from the heart, sing music all the time, because you have no limits "wrote Celine Dion the same song was ever played by Sister Jennifer, Celine Dion was popular with it in 1993. the video of the boy from Gabon, Samuel for the first time was placed on a famous blog of the country before Celine Dion was published it on her Facebook page where more than 2.5 million people have been able to watch so far. however, the boy spoke to the AFP news agency where he was surprised to see such a message from the World Musician. "I did not expect anything I do not have a phone or a Facebook account but my brother told me that Celine Dion had sent a message via my video. I believe too and I could meet her one day. explained the boy, Samuel at the moment the boy says he feels comfortable singing and now people across the street know him. Samuel said that he started singing to himself during times when he was at school breaks. "others could not believe that I can sing. when they entered class, they began to congratulate every time they found me singing "explained the boy to the BBC correspondent.
T105 CECAFA condemns blast tragedy the East and Central African Football Association (CECAFA) has joined Somalia in lamenting the incident where a blast killed a child and injured two others while they were playing football in Balanbale town near the Ethiopian border. shortly after that tragedy happened on Monday at the open stadium, the CECAFA Secretary General Nicholas Musonye wrote to the Secretary of the Football Federation of Somalia, Abdi Qani Said Arab to give his condolences on behalf of the federation. "I have received news of this tragedy with deep sorrow, especially at this time that the Somali nation is becoming stable in soccer. CECAFA is with you at this time of mourning," Musonye said in the condolence letter. "CECAFA would like to see peace prevail in Somalia, a nation where many youth will benefit from football in the future," said Musonye. "we believe the injured will recover quickly while we wish strength to the family of the deceased," Musonye's letter continued to say in the condolence message. by John Ashihundu
T104 the musician D-Knob ties the knot quietly. only 10 people attended the hit maker of the new single hold my hand of D-Knob today has amplified, the reasons of tying a knot quietly in year 2009 while the total of those people who attended together with the couple which was not more than 10 people from the church up to where they were going from the church. "I wanted to do it with my partner, I told him we have been lovers but now it is needful for us to be in marriage, he said let us go we led each other to the church, the priest said you cannot marry each other, you do you know what marriage is?" there is a step it is not something that we wanted to do like a lot of people so that you start contribution because all my close friends are broke, I would not want to tie a knot and then at the end of the day to be mad at each other that this one did not contribute or that one contributed, the second one I wanted to do it so that I can continue with my life the way someone decides to celebrate his birthday. 'our parents got the news lastly because even the old man in his message because we sat on the same table after the wedding the old man said, I don't know which gift to give you because you told me yesterday, the thing that we successful got was my wife's gown because it is a very expensive gown, I thank God it gave us stress in the beginning but it was successful'.
T107 after Rose Ndauka was involved in an ambush!! these are the words of Rose's fianc about the scandal after film artiste Rose Ndauka was reportedly caught unawares entering a guest house with an upcoming bongo Flava artiste Nassoro Ayoub 'Dogo Nasry' dressed in an abaya this holy month of Ramadhan, her prospective husband Maliki Bandawe 'Chiwaman' is after the artist with the claims of maligning his lover. speaking in Dar es Salaam City, Chiwaman disclosed that the artist Nasry who asked Rose to take part in his video, they failed to reach an agreement out of the small level of payment, and instead, that artist asked her to take a picture together as a memorial. he said that the act of taking photos with the artist during their initial talk on the fee are the photos he used to claim that he was with her in the guest house a claim which is not true. "these upcoming artists are after fame in a wrong way by maligning people, he had requested Rose to be part of his video and that is why they met for the discussion and she was accompanied by younger sibling, where does the guest house issue come in there?" said Maliki. he added that "if I didn't know that and how it all was I could have left my fianc whom I love very dearly, but what that artist did is not right, because he requested Rose to take a photo with him without knowledge of his intentions". Maliki said that the artist is seeking fame by maligning people's names, something that is out of order in the society.
T106 16 bodies recovered from the ship that sunk recently by AFP Gajaria, Bangladesh divers from the navy recovered the bodes of 16 people from the ship that sunk in Bangladesh. officials said the number of the people that died from drowning had reached 45. two ships succeeded in recovering that ship that had sunk and took it nearer to the shore, that's when divers succeeded to search for those who had drowned 90 feet (30 meters). waves had hit the ship that sunk three days ago. "we have completed the exercise at recovering bodies inside the ship. "officers from the navy who are divers have searched for survivors everywhere after the sunk ship floated," Bangladesh's Chief Maritime Officer Mister Shamsuddoha Khandaker told the AFP news agency. "up until now those who died from drowning were 45." we have searched everywhere and there is a possibility that no more bodies will be found," a chief government official in the area Mister Saiful Hasan told AFP. chief of police in the area Mister Ferdous Ahmed confirmed the number of dead. Hasan said that, search operations for more bodies in the River Meghna which is the widest in the world, would continue as some of the bodies might have been swept by waves to the river. reports say that the ship had carried 350 people but when it started its journey to the South of Bangladesh the number was reduced to 150-200.
T109 fish rearing is profitable while many farmers continued resentment due to crises of production costs, poor pay and bad effects of weather, a great relief for fish farming has budded at Vindimbwini. that industry has reached the level of bringing 50 billion shillings year per for fish breeders despite having the full agricultural potential estimated to be more than 130 billion shillings. the cultivation has increased with many of these farmers, saying that it has a lot of benefits since it requires low cost of production. according to the chairman of the union of small farmers in the country, Mister Leonard Mutugi, this fish industry has raised hopes of many farmers especially those close to sources of water. "in general, one fish pond can give a farmer a profit of 50,000 shillings in only six months, a situation that cannot be compared with any other crop farming," he said. Mister Mutugi says that since the launch of fish ponds projects five years ago, many farmers who embraced this farming activity have abandoned the tea and coffee cultivation due to countless challenges experienced there. "the sweetness of livelihood for the fishing industry is that the government funds the construction of ponds, gives us fingerlings to start us off rearing and then offer us knowledge about the market," he said. the situation has been incorporating a special unit of the Ministry of Agriculture which promotes the rearing of aquatic animals commonly called aquaculture. it is in this process that the government through the unit allocated 4 billion shillings which will be spent in the next three years to promote the local fish farming industry. while addressing fish pond farmers in Kigumo constituency recently, the chief officer of the unit, Mister John Karanja said that currently all the projects have been assessed and are at various stages of implementation. "that plan is to strengthen the industry which was launched in 2007 by former Minister of Finance, President Uhuru Kenyatta through the program of stimulating the development of the economy (ESP)," he said. that official says that the funding will target areas without sea or lakes to help local people get involved with the fishing industry saying that challenges that were occasioned by lack of market has been currently resolved and farmers are reaping satisfactory benefits. he adds that there are currently 48,000 projects, which have been introduced in arid areas where breeders received 20 billion shillings the previous year. the status of those projects will be expanded to 80,000 projects in 170 constituencies and in general the farmers will be able to earn more than 100 billion shillings if only the local market will be strengthened before considering the export market. currently it is only three percent of the national capacity that is distributed to commercial fish and the local fish keepers. if that percentage could reach 30, those farmers can reap reasonable income," he said. Mister Karanja says that another market that is doing well is that of fingerlings being sold to new breeders. "at the moment, the fingerling is sold at 7 shillings each. new farmer should start with 3,000 fingerlings. that means the farmer can get 21,000 shillings per day," he said. he said that areas with sea currently benefits national economy to three percent of their capacity, saying that the situation is miserable and without any benefit because most of the fishermen do not pay tax as their strategic market is governed by inadequate ideology. "there are those who believe that fish should not be sold and what they do is to have sex with their female customers and offer them those fish in exchange. such measures make fishermen poor and then deprive the national economic wealth that could be gained if the market strategies had been maintained well," he said. to ensure that the marketing strategies of fish products is maintained, the government will also have to spend 60 million shillings to build a fish factory in Nyeri County to enable local people to increase their yield. the process is expected to also benefit other fish farmers in the counties of Murang'a, Kirinyaga, Nyandarua, Kiambu and Laikipia. the chairman of the implementation of the project Mister Michael Kabui says that the plant will benefit more than 1,200 farmers in Nyeri County. "in addition, the project will employ approximately 30 employees directly and thousands of others will benefit abundantly through the arrangement of the broader market which shall be diverse from the products provided by the factory," he said. Mister Kabui said that the factory will be able to prepare 15 tons of fish per day. "the problem that we predict that may occur is less fish to satisfy the mechanical operations of the facility. it will require fish farmers in nearby areas to work harder in farming," he said. he wants farmers to increase the number of ponds saying that the factory will have refrigeration equipment to store fish which will be delivered in this manner thereby reducing fish spoilage. among the challenges that breeders have expressed about aquaculture is an invasion of animals who catch fish, penetration of air poison from the ground into fish ponds and major cost of production. moreover, those farmers argued that the cold season affects tilapia fish species reared by many farmers. the ministry of aquaculture development has been instructing farmers to consider types of catfish that are not affected by seasonal changes and also take a shorter time to mature. Mister Kabui says that these challenges can be controlled if the farmers join a cooperative society that will prepare them for breeding strategies, productivity and penetration into the market. "currently we have one factory in Othaya area that makes fish provender.
T108 why should a sportsperson be clean? well, readers of this corner, today is the second day since we ushered in 2017, the new year. I would like to wish all readers well in the new year. today I will explain why a sportsperson must be physically clean. physical cleanness to a sportsperson is something that is a must due to various reasons including a sportsperson's personal, health-wise, societal and mental (psychological) reasons. a sportsperson's physical cleanness is one of the fundamental things in preventing getting infections, diseases and bad body odor. we recognize ourselves on the importance of physical cleanness maybe from the teachings we get since childhood through schools where also we have ever encountered students who appeared to have difficulties with physical cleanness. we recognize ourselves also in being clean as one of the ways to attract the opposite sex and avoid being alienated or deserted by friends that you will meet as a result of bad body odor. likewise by recognizing that not being clean is endangering your body health. therefore then, for the person who doesn't understand this, there is need for him to be educated so as to return to the group. a sportsperson is a society's mirror. many communities desire to shake the hands of famous sportspeople and greet them closely when they meet them. training centers and sportspeople's camps are required to be cleaned by using chemicals to kill parasites because many use these areas. it makes you have a good appearance and therefore making you have self confidence and be alert in sport and even have the excitement to win while participating in sports. it should be noted that the press releases news in TV, radio and newspapers. having a clean appearance adds value and respect in the society. physical cleanness gives the society a perspective about your manners, the society mostly prefers people who love themselves. being clean increases your personality. despite all that, being clean is an important measure for a human being to be in good health. unhygienic sportsperson encounters various diseases including skin fungus on the feet, hair and nails. at the same time, getting skin infections from bacteria including scabies and boils. the body of a dirty sportsperson is in danger of getting fungus on the private parts, throat infections and bad smell from the mouth and a burning tongue. as a sportsperson, you should ensure bathing every time you finish playing using clean water and soap. if possible, bath at least thrice a day. ensure your sports gear, jersey and the tools you use are washed using soap that have accompaniments that are able to destroy disease parasites. make it a habit to wash your hand with soap every time because your hands touch various areas, and therefore are a source of infections.
T459 Facebook is asking for forgiveness from its users. the social network Facebook has been forced to ask for forgiveness from its users after sending the message about identifying situation after a blast occurred in Lahore, Pakistan. Facebook through its Safety Check service where, if there's an unsafe occurrence in an area that has internet users, will send messages to inform close relatives the state of the user in that region if they're safe. after the explosion of the bomb where approximately 70 people lost their lives, Facebook sent a message saying you are safe to people who were far away from that area, "it seems you are in the area affected by explosions in Gulshan-i-Iqbal Park, Lahore, Pakistan. report to your friends so that they can know that you are safe." after recognizing that there was a problem, it was necessary to apologize to those who received that message. unfortunately, a lot of people who had not been affected by the chaos (Pakistan) received the message asking them if they were safe, the problem that has risen was not intentional. we are working on it very fast so that that problem can be fixed, said the report from Facebook
T458 as the norm I wanted us to laugh outside and asked for forgiveness early . look at the cat scratching there . we've seen Mau's joke and now the discussion continues . you might find a father going to bed at even nine or ten o'clock as a mother you still have to move around and prepare the children take this from here and put it there and eleven o'clock would be approaching by the time you're going to bed . therefore you're the first and the last . I am always the last to sleep . I have to ensure that the whole family is asleep then I can sleep . at the end of the day there's equality or a male system even in payment for work (()) . there's a female conductor and a male conductor and there's a problem of (()) for the female one -- for the -- there's equality there or there are male and female attendants and the indication is okay and if it is okay what should we do (()) I feel the male system is there because we can't say that the male system isn't there . resulting from not putting each other as equals . and I feel because the father has become the head then he should be the bigger person and and the mother (()) smaller . but I feel the right should be equal . I feel like the right is progressing as years go by -- the progress of the right is equal . because from years back there were issues in the past of not being partial over any side the boys and girls were left but for now as years go by the woman has started being recognized that she also has the ability to work and she has the ability to do anything like a man . and that is why you'll find them saying there is a female conductor and a male conductor a female lorry driver and the male one . I feel the right is equal . you're ready that if you go having completed school you'll be employed . you and the person you schooled with are equal but will he be given more ? male . (()) . why ? at the moment -- at the moment by ninety percent the woman the man depends by a very high percentage on the woman . yes ? why ? they really need men who (()) women . but at the moment the women are feeding the men . therefore the salary should be equal even if it's for a man or a woman . (()) equal rights . we have come to the end of this second topic and welcome to the last past of the program . I can see many of the woman are saying it should be equal . there are a few fathers and young men who are disagreeing saying they carry responsibilities but I truly think as one woman said nine percent is a very small difference . women are working . sir I must talk about it and it's not just in towns but they are working . it's not that much sir . therefore I feel -- I am telling you that you will move around and see . I haven't seen female taxi drivers but that doesn't mean that if there are two calling out for taxi they should be given equal rights . the women are there now . a few in the taxis ? they drive the Costa very well . we have come to the end of the Minibuzz program (()) before departing let's meet with Shawal in Kilima area to touch on tomorrow's topic on the Buzz box . <misc>
T415 name hyp given name girl hyp person
T414 braid hair
T413 <misc> viewer of the program of the sister know yourself excellent sister until then we have come close to the end of the program . but I told you sister I haven't bid Ana goodbye because there is an issue which we would like to hear and what answers is she giving us or what is her perspective ? and the issue itself is the very same one which we had our question on . we say it's your chance to expand your knowledge concerning that issue . you could take it lightly but it's a big thing which is in our everyday lives . and our children's and so on . therefore we have a question where we said fellows we have had children . and sister Ana also has a child she is raising so when a child is chocked what steps do you take ? what do you do ? therefore our question will also go to sister Ana . sister Ana . <no-speech> do you have a child that you are raising pardon ? yes . when he is choked what do you do ? when he is choked I can give him water . yes . so what do you give the water for ? <no-speech> so as to prevent him from choking further . if he is choked what does he do ? <no-speech> when he is choked he behaves like he's getting strangled by something . when he's strangled what does he usually do ? he looks fixedly or he gets an unyielding cough . ahh ahh now do you give water instantly to someone who's coughing ? <no-speech> come on have some pity . yes . <no-speech> is that coming ? <no-speech> have you ever done that ? <no-speech> I have ever done it . <no-speech> did he therefore drink this water ? <no-speech> I did drink myself because I got choked myself . no I started drinking water . and did it stop ? yes . do you therefore believe that when a child chokes you should give him water ? I can give him water . okay alright . fellows these are sister Ana's answers . now what do you do if a child chokes ? do send us your answer . therefore it's a very basic question and I ask what do people usually do ? and where did they learn it from ? but technically why does a person get choked and what is required to be done and in which way ? you'll get answers right here but don't be in a hurry . we first want to hear what answers different people have ? and which answers do you too have ? <no-speech> <no-speech> we are heading to the very end of the program but we have a gift for our sister . sister Ana we have a gift for you we don't know how you'll receive it . but for our gift we would like to know if you have a bank account ? <no-speech> no there is no account . and have you ever desired to have an account ? yes . mm and so when you get your salary where do you keep it if you don't have an account ? <no-speech> me when I put -- when I get my salary I just keep it inside . but I really would have liked to open an account at this time . mm . yes . therefore you now just hide this money of yours inside ? yes . okay then we as sister know yourself well program we've thought that it's best for a sister that we will work with on the program we be able to give her a chance for her to open an account . therefore we'll go and open an account for you at our expense and then you when you'll now have those monies of yours that you had you'll be saving them in your bank account so that your money can be safe . because you do know that when you live in a house there are also many people they can get lost -- those issues are there . and also don't make someone covet for something again you do know that ? okay . mm don't blame someone . <no-speech> therefore I don't know you on your side would you like us to open for you that account ? yes I would like . we feel our gift will help you to fulfill goals . you don't you want to be a business person ? yes . maybe if you really decide to start working now for a whole salary of five years . will you first stop helping in doing business of selling clothes ? <no-speech> it will help me . yes it will help you . mm . and likewise your money will be safe the issues of second-hand clothes have passed there you get inside you take out money -- at once you've bought clothes . if peanuts come you will have them . yes don't you know that ? yes . we will help you avoid those . just greed for little things that can that can make your money not help you later . that is why we want you to have an account for saving your money there . is it okay ? okay . up to there I have now finished with sister Ana and I have faith that you will have gotten something in our program of sister know yourself sister well because it's sister know yourself we say sister you can't know yourself friend . that is an important name . sister to know yourself . recognize yourself . after you have done that you will be an excellent sister . because a person who has recognized herself all the days does the right things . starting from the planning of her work starting from her decisions on what to do and what not to do . after that you have to be an excellent sister . must . that's why we are telling you this it's sister know yourself that will make you be an excellent sister . all right ? I doubt you %incomplete
T412 Zari's husband has been alleged to impregnate a lady TV news anchor. she wanted to take revenge on Zari... when the Bongo Fleva star, Nasibu Abdul 'Diamond Platnumz' was waiting for his spouse, Zarinah Hassan 'Zari The Boss Lady' to deliver her daughter any time from now, the former husband to the lady, tycoon Ivan Ssemwanga is alleged to have impregnated a news anchor named Doreen Kumhangi, Ijumaa has captured. let's join each other in Kampala city. news from Kampala city, the capital city of Uganda allege that, Ivan and Doreen who is the anchor of the Morning Breeze program from Uganda's NBS television, have been seen glued to each other like leeches for several months now since last year. dd "all the time Ivan is in Kampala he hangs out with Doreen. severally they've been seen in different places while having fun. even when Doreen goes to South Africa (Sauz) she's been received by Ivan who has another residence there hence making it theirs," alleged a source which is an entertainment affairs observer in Uganda. Doreen releases a big secret. it was alleged that, after all that fun, recently, Doreen disclosed a big secret that Ivan was responsible for her pregnancy, a matter that made the guy to panic. it was said that, following Ivan's strong denial, there are claims that Doreen is imposing the pregnancy on him with the belief that people will agree with here since he's been with him during the period she got pregnant. she wanted to revenge on Zari. in their love, it was explained that, there was a time Ivan wanted to validate Doreen as his wife and it was not clear where the issue ended while behind here there being claims that he wanted to break her heart or revenge on Zari. "I've never walked with Doreen therefore I'm not responsible with the pregnancy she has," said Ivan mid the other day when he was cornered by one newspaper in that country. "what (Doreen) is saying isn't true, she wants to force the pregnancy on me," said that guy who bore three male children with Zari while he continued to oppose that issue on his social networking sites including Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. who is Doreen? reports explained that, Doreen is a news anchor who reads news at the NBST morning program. after being alleged to be with Ivan, Doreen was Zari's close ally and that they had worked together whereby a number of people had been saying she was the right alternative for Zari to that guy. celebrations in Diamond's family. while that continued at Ivan's, in Dar es Salaam City celebrations are expected to receive the guest in Diamond's family while it's explained that Zari will deliver any time from now.
T181 Shilole opens up to friends who want to frustrate her relationship with Nuh Mziwanda! bongo musician and bongo film maker, Zuwena Mohamed 'Shilole', has decided to clear the source of his dispute with her prospective husband, Nuh Mziwanda as friends. Shilole claimed that they had often been fighting, but the source was a blurring statement from their close friends who aimed at separating them. the lady claimed that from that situation, she has now decided not to involve them in any issue concerning her life in order to reduce frequent conflicts between them. she said those around them are most likely to contribute to conflicts in their relationships, considering that they are now in the process of getting married after the parents of both sides accepted their relationship. "we have noticed that friends are the ones coming between us because my boyfriend always receives information about me while they are the ones bringing me information about him, this has led to my need for many friends to be hypocrites," she said.
T260 from that position . the society has been blamed for having little awareness of learning on how to protect themselves or to prevent fire disasters that have been affecting them in the event it occurs . the evaluation shows when disasters of fire occur at the moment they many times cause major harm including the loss of valuable property and even the occurrence of deaths let's get a report . <no-speech> there are people who have nothing left . <no-speech> statistics show clearly fire incidents have reduced by certain level whereby in a month the department of fire and rescue in Mwanza province was receiving more than fifteen calls of houses or factories burning but it's only three times for now . the major problem is left with the society not knowing how to protect themselves from that disaster in the event it occurs . the society has no major knowledge concerned with (()) the fire and rescue force in Mwanza province still doesn't give up and therefore continues with the efforts to provide training on combating fire disasters . if it can be enabled to resist (()) more than five hundred . for here is how to use a special cloth for putting out the fire in the event the fire will be in the first second and third stage . <no-speech> the cry of the fire and rescue force's training officer Masudi Gaddafi is that the society lacks understanding on combating fire disasters . <no-speech> and its result is that the force reaches the area of incident when the fire had already caused major damages . <no-speech> knowledge helps because when -- disasters (()) when they occur if citizens have tools then they can put it out and when we arrive we arrive we will find that they've already cleared everything as opposed to find the house engulfed in fire where it becomes very hard to salvage it what we mostly do is cooling so that the fire does not cause what we call secondary damage . a section of citizens have had a positive perspective on the provision of that training in the society . if you're putting out fire use equipment that is good without any faults except I should advice the community if the possibility to get the equipment is there then they should shield themselves to avoid various accidents of -- . a cloth like that one -- a cloth that was said to be rare . a citizen can lose their -- produce . and there are -- we have our colleagues of the rescue force whom we told that it's not bad at this time if we trained at least our fellow Tanzanians . <no-speech> that training is a part of the strategy of the fire and rescue force in the country to ensure that fire disasters are reduced and forgotten in people's ears . <no-speech>
T411 Magufuli's planes to be launched today. written by Hellen Mlacky. published on: 28 September 2016 President John Magufuli is today expected to unveil two airplanes bought by the government to serve the people, as one of the implementation of his promises of reviving Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL). the second airplane arrived yesterday after the first one arriving in the country on September 20th this year. both planes have the capacity to carry 76 passengers each. speaking to the press in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Communication, responsible for transport, Doctor Leonard Chamuriho said, that launch will be done at the Julius Nyerere international airport (terminal 1). "these two planes of the type of Dash 8 Q400 have been manufactured by Bombardier factory in Canada and they will serve the domestic market and the neighboring countries," he said. Chamuriho invited all citizens to witness the airplane launch that is expected to commence at 2.00 in the morning so they can see for themselves the implementation of government promises to improving air transport in the country. those planes will have two classes, the economy class that will accommodate 70 passengers and the second class that will accommodate six passengers in every plane.
T410 bad weather has stopped the exploration of passengers' bodies Pangkalan Bun, Indonesia, bad weather led to suspension of the search operation of more passengers' bodies from aircraft AirAsia QZ8501 while investigations on the source of the crash were initiated. after two days search in the Java Sea, over 40 bodies along with the aircraft were found. while rescue officers had promised to continue their activities, the waves of the sea forced them to end their search. "we are experiencing bad weather. heavy rains and winds have prevented us from continuing with our activities in the morning, rescue participant SB Supriyadi told the media. chief of the Bambang Soelistyo Rescue Unit said already six bodies have been identified including one of the airline service providers. "as soon as the weather falls, the found bodies will be transported to Pangkalan Bun, a city near the airport," said Mister Soelistyo. Mister Supriyadi said hundreds of military personnel, police and rescue unit are waiting for the situation to calm to continue to search for bodies and important aircraft parts. the plane was traveling to Singapore from Surubaya, Indonesia. search activities are taking place on the island of Belitung. by Mashirika
T180 talks continue in Syria August 24, 2014 the Syrian administration and the country's opposition side are expected to discuss the setting free of prisoners. according to DW, a United Nations arbiter Lakhdar Brahimi said the meeting was a good start after an agreement was reached to send humanitarian aid to the conflict hit town of Homs. moreover, the arbiter said the plan can be effected by sending an aid delegation to Homs between today and tomorrow. hundreds of people in the ancient city live in deplorable conditions consistent with the occurrence of shelling day by day.
T502 bishop evf religion
T453 Minister Shamsa misleads Parliamentary Committee speaker May 31, 2012 speaker of parliament, Samuel Sitta, said the Land Committee, Natural Resources and Environment, led by Kongwa MP, Job Ndugai, made a mistake to agree with the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism on a decision that had been made to interfere with the legislature's mandate and mandate to extend the scope of the hunting blocks ownership contrary to the original resolutions of the institution. according to the Speaker, what should be done is that the Chairman of the Committee gives a quick report to the Parliamentary Committee at least so that it can use its discretion on the issue and the Standing Committee of Parliament doesn't decide to go against parliamentary resolutions. the commentary of the Speaker is based on the recent event of the Kwela MP, Doctor Chrisant Mandakaya, to submit a personal argument to the parliament requesting the Parliament to issue alternative resolutions against the steps of Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Shamsa Mwangunga, to interfere with Parliament's rights and powers. Mwagunga was required to increase the ownership of the hunting blocks that his expiry should end this year. he added that time with more than three years, when Parliament already announced that the deadline would end this year in accordance with the original contracts of the owners to reorganize the process of redistribution should be done. in his defence on the issue, Minister Mwangunga told Parliament that he had changed the decision after submitting the grounds for doing so on the Land Committee, Natural Resources and Environment, on January 12, this year since the Assembly meeting was not yet started. the Assembly meeting began on January 27, this year. after Minister Mwangunga submitted his proposal to the committee, the committee agreed with the matter that the Committee had interfered with the Parliament's right and authority because it had agreed with the decision without submitting that argument to the parliament so that the Parliament would probably dismiss its original resolutions. but also in their defence, the committee through its chairperson, Job Ndugai, claims that it could not submit the statement to the parliament because the Minister had to make a decision to extend the time before the major Nevada hunting conference in the United States where he announced to the block owners that the period had been extended three more years and wrote them a letter. however, in his comment to good Citizen, the Speaker said if there was an emergency and weighty issue, wisdom should be applied to the Ndugai Committee to submit the information of the Minister to the Parliamentary Leadership Committee. the Parliamentary Leadership Committee is composed of the Speaker, Deputy Speaker, the Chairman of the Parliament and all the chairman of the Standing Committee of Parliament. this is the highest organ of Parliament that makes decisions on various issues relating to the conduct of the Assembly of the Democratic Republic of Tanzania. the wishes that should be applied in this regard, especially from the Land Committee, Natural Resources and Environment, to determine that there is an initial resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly, is to present the actual situation in the Management Committee. but this is something that should be done if there are basic causes and it happens very rarely, said the Speaker and added that: I do not believe in the state the Minister was advised to do this (interfere with the constitutional rights and values). however, as I explained in Parliament, the Minister apologized to the Assembly and it has been satisfied and even a person gave the element in his argument that Parliament would appeal to the Minister. among the emerging debate on parliamentary members supporting the decision of Minister Mwangunga to extend the ownership period of the blocks is that the State may be charged if it does not implement the decision because it has already informed the owners. but this argument is severely opposed by some members who have reached the point of demanding hunting operations to be completely eliminated because the country does not benefit adequately. Kigoma North MP Kabwe Zitto, is surprised to claim that the government will be charged but emphasizes that it will not be the first time the government will be charged. the government was charged after breaking its contract with the City Water company and was charged and eventually fined but the Government broke a contract with Richmond. so making a favorable decision to the nation is a fundamental issue, emphasizes Kabwe. some of the controversies seen in parliament claim that some MPs have benefited from goals of wanting the block owners to be added more time. it is alleged that some MPs and Ministers have benefited most of them aiming at collecting money with a view to ensuring victory in the polls of their party in the year. but it is also alleged that some in the tourist hunting sector are among the group of corrupt suspects who have planned to collect money for ensuring that the strong parliamentary members are fall in the polls this year and that the addition of ownership period of the blocks is part of the revenue to achieve the strategy.
T452 <no-speech> later after he was done with exams he told me he will try to completely comfort himself . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mmhm . mm . ahh that is -- that is (()) we shall pray for him (()) %incomplete man %incomplete <no-speech> mm ? mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> may I ask you should I be coming and you come to pick me from the street ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> where baby maybe -- maybe when I am free but you will first talk to Lilian then I will tell you to -- how it will be ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> I will talk to her she told me -- she told me we shall just talk . <no-speech> let me organize then I will alert her when I am ready . <no-speech> <no-speech> but probably next week %incomplete it is so . <no-speech> <no-speech> and then you know Edna moved . mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> she moved from where he used to stay to go to a place I have not known where she moved to . where did she go ? <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm but maybe Lilian will explain much to you maybe if you -- if you want %incomplete <no-speech> okay now whoever will direct me is Lilian for real . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> for real if she quits I don't know where I will hang . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm so maybe you have to -- you have to talk to her %incomplete <no-speech> mm because she is the one to take you where Edna moved to %incomplete mm . <no-speech> (()) and where I ? so you will not be available ? <no-speech> <no-speech> okay we shall talk about (()) that if -- if I can -- if I can be there %incomplete mmhm . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> can you -- can you talk to Lilian well and go to her place ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh (()) Lilian is not at her place . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> pardon ? <no-speech> Lilian is not at her place . she is already married in a design ? (()) she is coming back I tell you %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> pardon ? <no-speech> mmhm mmhm . she has not confirmed to us if she has left or not yet . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> but %incomplete mmhm . mostly -- mostly you find her -- she is where I told you . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm so also %incomplete but %incomplete I didn't know if Amanda or how it is . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you can talk to her and then %incomplete but you can -- might there be a possibility that you can go to her place even when she is at that other place ? <no-speech> <no-speech> okay I will talk to her then I will tell you . mmhm . <no-speech> I will talk to her probably tomorrow %incomplete mmhm . or -- or today . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> but Lilian is not bad . man she is a cooperator for real . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> no Lilian -- our Lilian is not bad . <no-speech> <no-speech> for real she seriously has a human heart for real . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> and she is also -- understanding . <no-speech> imagine I used to bother her on phone until I wonder God what have I become now ? until I -- until I wonder whom can I tell surely . <no-speech> mm you know if it was any other bad person maybe (()) %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> she could have even switched off on me and told me now your stories are too much . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> but now I don't even know which present I will come to give her ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I don't know but you told me there are those things you bought then carried ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I have already gotten some for her but it is like you know she is young so the other thing is %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you understand ? but later . <no-speech> (()) how they are ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I have gotten her the ones like yours but another design -- they made a different design for me . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> you know I was confused to buy your shoe . <no-speech> but %incomplete <no-speech> you know I have never bought a lady's shoe . <no-speech> so you were unable or what %incomplete but didn't you tell me you were %incomplete I have -- I have -- I bought but I told -- I told a certain lady and she bought it for me . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I was not able to . so the girl bought for you ? (()) . ahh mm . <no-speech> she bought them for me and brought them to me . <no-speech> <no-speech> I have them in the house right now -- I am just waiting to -- to bring you -- to bring you . <no-speech> <no-speech> I have already set everything budget and %incomplete it is available you told me they are in black or white ? <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> there is another design -- black-like design . <no-speech> <no-speech> it has a certain heel I swear Mount Kenya . <no-speech> mm it has what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> heel -- a heel tall as Mount Kenya . <no-speech> did I warn you ? surely but it is not so tall but it -- it's nowadays that they are good I see . <no-speech> <no-speech> say you are the one seeing then that day (()) if they -- if they refuse you are the one (()) %incomplete pardon %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it will be reduced for you . <no-speech> or they cannot be reduced ? <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> it will be reduced for you or a heel cannot be reduced ? <no-speech> I don't know if they are reduced maybe I ask but I have never seen . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> but they are fine . if they -- if they will appear bad %incomplete mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> so it will force when I come back here %incomplete <no-speech> there is another one I saw but it was costly -- the mm cost was it was expensive . for real you have a lot of expenses . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech>
T451 (()) . <no-speech> parents and guardians in Arumeru district Arusha province have been urged to create a conducive environment for their female children and empower them so that they can be able to be good leaders later on . that call has been made by the former retired minister Edward Lowasa during a fundraiser for the purpose of constructing a dormitory in Henry (()) girls secondary school -- Henry Gogarty that is in Arumeru district in Arusha . our journalist Sechelela Kongola has prepared more reports . <no-speech> parents and guardians have met in Henry Gogarty girls' secondary school that is in Arumeru district in Arusha province with the aim of fundraising for the construction of a dormitory to those students to get a reprieve from sleeping in classrooms during this time which is not safe . suddenly the exercise to fundraise money for the purpose of that construction began (()) where later the retired Prime Minister Edward Lowasa spoke with the parents together with the guardians who had attended that fundraising while insisting to other schools to emulate the convent together with padre schools which have shown good results in national exams . <no-speech> therefore for parents who are lucky to have children here it is sure fortunate . <no-speech> contribute towards these efforts of making the others %incomplete as your children get a good education the others should also get this kind of a chance . <no-speech> the forth reason is that I have come to congratulate these students who have done well in their exams much congratulations . <no-speech> on his side the head teacher of that girls' school Bernada Moshi has said that the school is facing many challenges including a building for the purpose of science subjects . the second biggest challenge the official guest of honor is the construction of a laboratory for the sake of science subjects . we have a classroom where we have put all the equipment for the purpose of practical lessons the classroom is small and the students are many with a big interest in science subjects . in that fundraiser a total of one hundred and ninety-six million shillings was collected including pledges and cash money . where the goal was to collect two hundred and fifty million shillings with the retired Prime Minister and his friends contributing ten million shillings . Sechelela Kongola T_B_C One Arusha . <no-speech> let's stay on ~
T527 pipes syn water conduit pressure hyp physical force
T450 end of the year exams
T526 we will start with our theme . a short break then we embark on our second topic that says why is money for beer always available ? <no-speech> but first where have you brought it from (()) ? why money for beer (()) ? -- it hurts me very much to demand my money from someone for the sixth month now and worse still he is fattening while I am getting skinny . now you do not want him to grow fat because he is owing you ? is that not contempt ? <no-speech> again you found him sitting there ordering for beer and yet when I demand my money he says he does not have but he has for beer . why is money for beer -- is always available ? hey someone here -- is intimidating intimidating ? do not be afraid to say . or you used to intimidate in the past but you since stopped ? I will intimidate till tomorrow . no . yes . tell us the truth here why is money for beer always available ? it's true mister money for beer is always available because beer is something like a refreshment okay ? I am distressed -- I am distressed but it is a must -- I get to a place I must sit down relax and drink beer . what of the day you absolutely have no money how do you get it ? I go borrow there since I drink there every day . do you go to borrow . yeah just for alcohol ? yes I am there because -- I am there . member . yes I am a member there . alcohol owner . or drunkards or drinkers . seventy percent fail in life . <no-speech> mmhm . why do you say that ? because everything that is very tasty you get used to it . it is very hard to cease that is why many a time I am often crumble . that is you see that thing there (()) . yeah . you can see those houses there do you know their meaning ? that one there ? yeah those households of -- of -- of bamboo blades . that one has been placed there to preserve . there was Nyerere's time for Nyerere he used to say it every day . that means that majority of those who drink alcohol usually end up broke . when their power is gone they call you they have not built a house in the village and they go to stay in a grass-thatched house . this as Kaoli states honorable master it is not true . I drink alcohol and until this moment I own a house -- I possess other things yes . which method have you used until you managed to cope with the test that the honorable states there ? I drink alcohol consistent with my status and -- and when I am searching for money when I am -- I am looking for money today I have a million . that million I will not go -- I will not go with it in a bar . I will take -- I will take a million to my wife and take home . I offer myself -- I will hand it to my wife -- my wife nine hundred thousand I will leave home with only one hundred thousand . tithe . yes I will go out with one hundred -- I will go out with one hundred thousand heading for alcohol . and if that one hundred thousand ends up in alcohol there even if it is finished I know that I have nine hundred thousand at home . this man here is not a drunkard he is still a drinker . he has not yet fallen into the bottle with his feet hanging up ? he is not in yet -- he is not in straight . as you say why is it that money for beer is always available ? mm . the money for beer must be available and he must have it . now as he had -- as Maasai said that someone owes him and claims cannot pay back his debt yet he gets money to drink . so you see that this one here -- his priority is alcohol . now this man spoke of a case of . <no-speech> drink and get drunk . <no-speech> I am concerned when you drink -- how do you control yourself from getting drunk ? <no-speech> you can -- can you control yourself from getting drunk while you are drinking ? the purpose of drinking first is to get drunk there is no other purpose of drinking . the purpose of drinking means getting drunk but Maasai said why in particular money for beer -- money for drinks or money for beer is ever available . priority . and he accepts going to sleep without food but drinks just alcohol and he is satisfied . there is one who uses alcohol just as a refreshment . for example in errands people drink alcohol and enjoy . do you see ? for -- for a man who uses alcohol as if it is everything to him and he cannot eat food except drink alcohol that man really has no development . except for the one who uses alcohol just as a refreshment has development because he is intelligent . there is a testimony people say that as a drinker who is absolutely known to be an exceptional drinker -- you can lack money but you get a long with your friend who can buy for you and -- tomorrow you are bought for again and the day after tomorrow you bought for but they say later on it becomes a debt and when you get money you must also buy around of alcohol . there is truth for that one honorable . there is truth because I like you -- you -- you -- you are drunk -- you have cared for me . yeah today you are concerned about me I requested for a drink okay and me another day when I get money yes I also attend to you my friend . this is the reason why money for alcohol is ever available ? yes yes . for beer . for beer yeah I myself I do business . know that a drunkard can lose memory sense but as to me a drinker cannot lose memory sense . you know what it is you are doing . there is a saying that states that if you want information go to the bar . so this is true ? indeed I have heard a lot of this from the alcoholic drinkers . they say yeah master that if you want to research a business whatever -- whatever go to the bar . now for those who do not drink who are the majority here -- where do you get your secrets if it is a must that you get it from a bar and a must -- to give out cash ? <no-speech> and there at the bar sister mm you cannot -- you cannot -- you cannot -- you cannot go there that -- you cannot go to the bar unless you drink . you can go to -- you can go to the bar and order even for water and drink it . yeah not really . you go -- you go -- you go to bar with your friends fifteen days of the first month for example the first month to drink soda . second month your friends will tell you sir yeah begin (()) food (()) . for what -- soft alcohol -- soft . you bringing -- you bringing bees here sir . and that is why -- alcoholics will tell you like this that it is a must we make a deal at the bar . because you know if you make a deal at the bar it will come back in the circuit . now there are two things there . there is alcoholism that is learned or -- taken up maybe by friendship . because you have drunkard friends . so that is why you go and arrange your things perhaps in bar where probably bar circuit passes by you . now when you start there and come to get used to it you start taking -- drinking even at home . then later on children come to -- to enter into risky alcoholism . for example I took from the environment where I was born . <no-speech> you can realize that the elderly people had developments though alcohol was present but they were not drinking the way it is being done today . now probably you in your age group -- who felt that alcohol today -- are messed up . as usual we must put the salad in the middle in (()) . but today our salad is that of lines -- lines . we also look at him today (()) as he comes with his lines . <no-speech>
T457 emotion syn mental state forgiveness syn pardon
T525 bottle hyp container
T456 failure of important agenda 2015 March 08, 2013 data analysis on success rates mentioned recently by Prime Minister, Mizengo Pinda shows that average pass mark for those who started secondary in the third phase is 89 percent. 67, while those who started in the fourth phase is 58 percent. 83. these statistics are for a period of three years during the reign of President Benjamin Mkapa in the third phase of his leadership. what is considered in the data analysis is the students who started secondary during the concerned leader's term. during press conference with the journalists in his office at Magogoni, in Dar es Salaam, the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda said that in the year 2005, the success rate was 89 percent. 3. in the year 2006, it was 89 percent. 12 and in the year 2007, it was 90 percent. 6. he continued to explain that in the year 2008, the success rate was 83 percent. 6. in the year 2009 the rate was 72 percent. 5. in the year 2010 the rate is 50 percent. 4. in the year 2011, the rate became 53 percent. 6 while last year level of success was 34 percent. 5. those who started secondary during the time of Mkapa, the statistics illustrate that in the year 2005 the rate of success was 89 percent. 3, those graduates started their secondary education in the year 2002, at the time when Benjamin Mkapa had started his second term. although the graduates who graduated form four in the year 2006, meant that they started their education in the year 2003, at the time Mkapa was still in power and their rate of success was 89. 12, while those who graduated in the year 2007, rate of success was 90 percent. 6, started secondary in the year 2004, one year before Mkapa retired. for the year 2008, the graduates started secondary in the year 2005 when there was handing over power between Mkapa and Kikwete, at the end of that year, the examination results for the 2008 graduates had a success rate of 83. 6. those who started education at the time of Kikwete, the success results indicate that the graduates of the year 2009 whose rate of success was 72.5 percent, started secondary in the year 2006 and graduates of the year 2009 whose average rate of success was 50.4 percent started education in the year 2007. for the graduates of the year 2011 there average success was 53 percent. 6 those who started education in the year 2008, while those graduates who broke the record of failure, had an average pass of 34 percent. 5 those who started secondary in the year 2009, one year before Kikwete started the second phase of his term. the heavy work for Kikwete due to how the situation is right now and especially when compared to his predecessor, Benjamin Mkapa, it is obvious that he has a big job of appropriately using almost three years to produce form four graduates who will paralyze the heat of failure, otherwise, the education agenda will be a difficult dice for the future contestant of his party- the party of the revolution (CCM). apparently, on the other hand the truth of the matter indicates that the effects of failure was more pronounced during Kikwete's reign due to some level of complacency brought about by the then Mkapa's Minister of Education Joseph Mungai, who interfered with the education curriculum by removing some subjects and mixing up others thereby giving rise to graduates who later on became teachers without having been taught some of the subjects that were removed and later on reintroduced, immediately after Kikwete ascended to power. however, more blame is on Kikwete due to government's failure to invest in basic areas to improve education and instead invested more in education infrastructure. for example, information shows that during his reign it is as if the department of school audit was dead. that department is considered dead because of other reasons, among them is lack of sustainable budget, although some auditors also claimed to have lacked required level of professionalism to audit, which also involves assessment of teachers' abilities to teach accordingly alongside other criteria that need to be considered in the delivery quality education. another area that the government seams to be joking is in failure to adequately invest in the curriculum section, our news sources reveal that a huge need dominates in that area, the system of publication of books has been turned into an exhibition of sorts for ordinary items that are substandard. "nearly all areas that are said to be important pillars in the betterment of education have been neglected and money is not allocated, yet people are surprised for poor results," our news source explained, from the Ministry of education and Vocational Training, which is currently headed by Doctor Shukuru Kawambwa. therefore, the great task that Kikwete has whose results of "board of failure" constituted by Prime Minister Pinda can be a guide, is together with ensuring that within two years of yielding graduates before completion of his term, increases the average success rate better than his predecessor Mkapa. a huge political agenda of 2015 is education which in CCM is like a political dice for the former Prime Minister, Edward Lowassa that can become a big agenda during the 2015 general elections, which has already been predicated to be marred by debates. if education will continue being an important agenda, Lowassa can have an influence of its kind among members of CCM, although experience shows that, the CCM candidate carries the aspiration of the party's manifesto and not his own declarations, though implementation of that manifesto relies upon his unwavering will. yet there is no other candidate among those running for presidency on CCM who can dissociate himself from the issue of education. already Samuel Sitta who to a great extend differs politically with Lowassa, has been banking his political campaigns on managing corruption and poor utilization of national resources. nevertheless, outside CCM, if this is how things will turn in regards to education being an important agenda, then the party of NCCR-Revolution through its chairman, James Mbatia (parliamentarian) can enhance its popularity at political platforms although it will also depend on the manner in which the party can strategically plan to continue being a source of innovation about this agenda of education. all the same, apart from NCCR through Mbatia, already the Party of Democracy and Development (Chadema) through its campaigns of the year 2010 declared to improve education in the country and some of its policies is to offer better education and make it compulsory from primary school up to form six. it is from this situation, that analysts believe education can become an important political agenda in the campaigns of 2015 general election.
T389 not bad (()) . yes not bad . if we review it alert me as they are saying they are going to do (()) I'm going to make it . yes . is it in preparation or you have already prepared it ? fan me is getting finalized I think it will be ready tomorrow on the side of mixing I am getting ready for the video and I have finalized the costume for everything and I have organized my people in Zanzibar whom I will go I will go to -- to finalize on the video itself and I will leave a video for each one . your singing %incomplete mm mm . -- your singing during the time I that I was there I think that you had (()) in Bongo flavor yes yes . so now (()) did you decide to return to Taarab or you will continue with Bongo flavor ? I won't manage to continue with Bongo flavor because I have -- I am able to sing any type of music and therefore if you talk about Prince we're talking of Taarab because there's my mother's band that I support . even when the queen herself tells me to rest today I will rest . mm . I am the one who will lead that band and I have the ability I have the talent then things will be just fine . let's return to -- you said that if you tell me about Prince you will elaborate it for me . yes . and the viewer at this time is looking forward for you to elaborate in relations to the prince name . yes prince is a rank which any child to the king or queen becomes that is the one who becomes a prince . therefore I am a prince child of Taarab and that is why I call myself Prince the black meaning the color of my body that is my skin color . mm mm . because my brother was from a different father %incomplete mm mm . therefore he was born white because people ask why I am dark (()) Omari was white (()) his dad was white and there's my younger sibling who is also white their fathers are white and therefore my dad is black and my mother is black and that is why I was born black . even when you look at mother she doesn't like the bleaching things and therefore we honor our color and we are therefore black unit . and the Kopa is for the clan and I have put my rank of -- of mmhm (()) prince (()) Kopa and black for my color and the Kopa clan . me and you have talked of much but the main aim of making all these things yes I believe is to honor her . the late (()) . what is the biggest things that you can say that is I will continue honoring her ? <no-speech> as a person there's an idea I have started there's a big show which I will prepare next year which will happen God willing there's a big show which I will prepare to the late Marie Kopa in which I will sing almost all the songs . mmhm . I will be with my fellow artists the likes of Yangasa Ali and the other artists I will invite Mwinyi Mkuu whom we will cooperate with my fellow youths %incomplete mmhm . I will prepare one major night whose preparations will be very good at an unknown stadium but we will sit properly and make plans with our committee . in which I will also introduce I will also launch the album to these songs where videos C_Ds and t-shirts will be there and many other things . I think you will see for yourself it will be ready . I don't like -- I usually don't like talking too much it will be ready things will be visible . if we move from Taarab because you came from Bongo %incomplete mmhm . which artist is in that Taarab of your mother Hadija Kopa ? who else attracts you if we leave alone Taarab and go to the side of Bongo flavor R_N_B and hip-hop ? amid -- that is amid the Bongo flavor artists ? yes who can you say fully attracted you to an extent of getting here even though you have come from an origin if I may say of a Taarab singer ? I think Vanessa a lot . Vanessa Mdee ? Vanessa can do but someone who is also close . yes . we were exchanging thoughts . <no-speech>
T388 . <no-speech> the games competition of the the universities in Tanzania have been launched officially in Dodoma province and included eighteen universities of Tanzania and Zanzibar . <no-speech> some of the games expected to be played are together with football and netball for women and men . our sportswoman Gloria Maganza from Dodoma province with more in depth about that report . <no-speech> <no-speech> launching those competitions in the University of Dodoma head of Dodoma province Chimu Karawa have required the all participants of the games to use those games as required and recognize that games are employment as they request the residents of Dodoma to come out in large numbers for the aim of supporting those competitions . but games also prepares you you can get employment in future if you do very well and then use that your talent which you have . me what I can say on these days that we are here up to on nineteenth is -- is good the citizens to come of Dodoma and all other students available %incomplete vice chancellor of the University of Dodoma Idris Kikula also insists on the issue of unity and cooperation to dominate in those competitions . therefore for I ask you let's play these games as Tanzanians our Tanzanian unity . <no-speech> games are not disputes games are entertaining ourselves games are to show that we are Tanzanians and we are together . the issue of poverty in the association of Tanzanians universities games TUSA still is seen a problem which the chairman of that association Wilson Ndege is asking the government to be able to help in putting together those competitions in the coming period . we are asking the government to help us to continue taking care of this matter of games deeply . <no-speech> through the ministry and we understand that our mother you can check out that matter which takes us to where it is involved . the participants also did not hesitate to say a few about how they were prepared . <no-speech> ahh we have prepared enough I believe in my team and we have the ability to win goals and getting the victory in our game of today . on the side of the government I see already has started to do a good job in the issue of sports also I ask to continue to motivate the youths to participate in the games not only in the universities only . these competition of the Tanzanians universities games are taking place at the University of Dodoma for the second consecutive time . Gloria Maganza Star T_V Dodoma . <no-speech>
T455 is me yours Shahaji . assistant mister of the country in the office of the Prime Minister the provincial administration and the government of the component villages who deals in education Kassim Majaliwa have instructed the executives who are managing education in the whole country to follow closely the the systems of teaching in the schools to satisfy themselves if it can increase the level of success or not . Assistant Minister Majaliwa provided that instruction in Morogoro province when opening the first phase of teaching amendments that involved teachers from nineteen committees of coastal Dar es Salaam Morogoro . <no-speech> to be quickened . (()) especially there are classes of eight countries . <no-speech> class four and class seven . <no-speech> and we must activate the extra plan quickly so that we to remove and take them in a place so they can succeed well . I believe that now will work on it . <no-speech> therefore all the education managers in all levels ensure that all schools rely on the implementation of that which I have instructed on this examination classes . so that every teacher in every subjects in total these three I am reading to be able to make major corrections . <no-speech> and secondly as we continue to do the preparations for their examination at the end of this then we will have many examinations in the class . first the projects of the class itself but also I will start a school and school let's return that system of school to school . <no-speech> he has added he has added that the government will continue to provide these teachings to teachers and the methods of teaching time to time so that to end problem of weak performance of students in the country . these teachings of three days have the aim of providing the methods of teaching to the teachers being the effort to raise levels of understanding of the students that have little understanding in the classrooms so that they can do well in their learning . <no-speech>
T383 talent syn ability artist
T382 TTCL will have to move to GSM. it is written by Fadhili Akida, Morogoro. published 14 September 2016. the communication network for all (UCSAF) wants the mobile company in the country (TTCL) to change its system of communication from CDMA to GSM. that step is to simplify the availability of communication to citizens of the villages that are in the park of Ngerengere, Morogoro that uses the company's tower that is in Tununguu Sub-county. the CDMA communication system denies the user's ability in deciding to choose different kinds of mobile and agree to use only one type of mobile that allows the system, instead of GSM that is used to any kind of mobile. chairman of the board of that fund, Doctor Joseph Kilongola, said the package has provided funding subsidies to that company to enable to build that tower for the purpose of giving the citizens who live in that place an opportunity to get the communication. he said it would be meaningful as the system used by that company is affecting those citizens tin getting the communication and that is not the purpose of the government. "place like this TTCL thinking now about the rabidly change of their communication so that the citizens can benefit with the fruit of UCSAF" he said. the contact tower of TTCL in the Tununguo sub-county, Morogoro distributes communication to the villages of Dete, Mbogo, Kisanga Stendi an Tununguo. board members of the fund there are in tour inspection projects for the contact towers located in the counties of Tununguo, Chakwale, Chanjale, Chagongwe, Mandege, Doma and Lyogwe that exists in various district in the Morogoro region to see the performance of that tower that is donated subsidies with UCSAF.
T381 UNESCO General Director's message celebrates the world's Sayansi day the World Science Day for Peace and Development in 2016 is "Celebrating Centers and Museums of Science". our beginning is clear Sayansi continues to be the main pillar of the 2030 agenda for Sustainable Development, Addis Ababa agenda is to take a strategy for Sendai Disaster Risk Strategy, and Paris Convention on climate change. all these agreements provide a new thought of peace and prosperity of the world, to empower having a community that builds and exchanges knowledge to continue discovery and innovation with an aim to ensure the existence of sustainable and joint development in the future. in order to achieve this, further expansion of the Sayansi industry is needed to ensure the presence of positive relations between Sayansi and society. this is the main reason why centers and museums of Sayansi are essential for building capacity, defending and transmitting messages on the importance of Sayansi in sustainable development. centers and museums of Sayansi together have a major role in nurturing the curiosity of men and women, as a creative laboratory to stimulate research and to help the community cope with its challenges. in this digital era, the time we need creative efforts to promote Sayansi studies outside classes, centers and museums of Sayansi are key to helping that. they provide an appropriate way to motivate children especially for girls to study Sayansi studies to enhance the potential and scientific efficiency. in November 2015, UNESCO welcomed the world's proposal to maintain and develop museums and its publications, its other documents and its responsibilities before the community, to strengthen our wish of mobilizing the museum as an important element of peace and sustainable development. in the celebrations of this year of World Science Day in Peace, we cooperate with the Association of Science -Technology Centers and the international Council of Museums in this regard, aiming at developing and distributing scientific knowledge throughout the world. centers and museums of Sayansi are key platforms for dialogue to be able to understand and be able to cope with various issues. they offer sparkles of Joy and wonders that move foreigners regardless of age or nature, by providing experiences that bring together women and men of the same moral values. in this regard, I invite all the partners together with governments around the world to integrate power into developing centers and museums for the purpose of having a sustainable development.
T380 the project has been created to control Tanzania and Malawi border in the year on July 19th 2012. to the citizens who flood is part of their lives, and sometimes their nationality are forcefully change by the river, to the process which enable them to fight with that calamity is the salvation in their lives. floods are among the effects of climate change, in the country, one of the areas which is often affected by this is the Kyela district in Mbeya province and in the neighboring country Malawi's Karonga district, which borders Kyela on the Tanzania side. the news from both two government, Malawi and Tanzania, it shows that approximately 52,000 people who lives down the valley of river Songwe in both countries, they have been affected by floods which come out frequently in that area. but despite the flood problem, citizens living in the River Songwe valley basin, down on both sides of both countries have been facing the problem of evacuation and their settlements caused by the nature of River Songwe that keeps shifting during spring rains. river Songwe behavior of changing its course now and then for decades now has brought discomfort to the two countries Malawi and Tanzania where in doing so the citizens that are in those flooded areas find themselves in the opposite side of their country thus avoiding the question of their citizenship which is if it's the earlier one or the forced one. experts in environmental science have concluded that the river's behavior of changing its course has largely been contributed to by the destruction of its surroundings, felling of trees, clearing of bushes and indigenous growths on the river banks and crop farming to the river beds. it's been explained that human activities have contributed to the exposure of river banks that easing soil erosion during heavy rains where water currents forces the river to change its course and penetrate further either in Tanzania or Malawi. citizens of both sides haven't been sure with their levity, especially when heavy rains approach, and moreover they don't understand even the events that will befall them in the following rain season, for all these years they've lived in dependence of God's mercy. while the people are still in those conflicts, Tanzania and Malawi governments have come up with solutions to problems faced by their citizens as well as the borders of the two countries, it's a step towards establishing a joint venture development program for the Songwe river basin. in addition to the main the aim of that plan, was to strengthen the borders of the two countries which are in Mto Songwe so as to prevent the haphazard changes of the river caused by its perennial nature, the plan will also have many economic and social benefits, to the citizens who lives to the valley on both sides of the two countries. several steps have already been implemented by the two governments since the commencement of its process around the year 2001, when a feasible study was done under the sponsorship of Norway through NORPLAN's organization. the countries have now made huge progress whereby this week on Monday in Kyela town, they launched a detailed review of Songwe River development project which will be implemented over a period of two years from 2012 to 2014. the Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, explained the importance of the project as a deliverer for citizens living along the River Songwe Basin, who for decades have been affected by the floods as well as unproductive farming. the Songwe River Basin project is expected to make changes in the economic, social development and the lives of the people in general. Doctor Mwakyembe points out the catalyst of change in the lives of the people as investing in economic projects as well as the presence of a good environment in the use of water in the basin. the talks between these two countries about how to solve the problems facing those countries at the River Songwe basin began in the ninety seventies, where several basic issues were implemented including agreements, project feasibility, proper placement of the MoU on the implementation of the project and financing. initially, the launch was to be conducted by the Minister of Water, Professor Jumanne Maghembe, who was stuck in the Katavi region, where it is said he went to participate in party activities. however, Minister Maghembe arrived in the evening when the launch operations were completed. thus, he continued with the other activities including providing water wells worth 60 million shillings for the people of Mungano Ward. the project's Secretary General and Ministry of Water, Christopher Sayi, stated that the main purpose of the project was to control the flow of River Songwe which serves as the boundary between the two countries, Malawi and Tanzania, and that the control will help strengthen the border of the two countries (border stabilization). in his speech during the launch of the project in Kyela town, engineer Sayi mentioned that some of the objectives were to control the floods that have been torturing the citizens who live at the lower region of River Songwe's valley for several decades now. according to the project's professional report, there will be built three long dams in three different places which will gather water from River Songwe. in the expert's news it has been confirmed that, the construction of those three dams, will add benefit to the project for citizens living at the valley of River Songwe, which is among the production of electricity, irrigation farming and fishing activities. the extra profit from that project is among with improving road, incite tourist activities and maintenance for environment of valley for river Songwe. engineer Sayi confirmed that what is happening in that process of project which was formed recently, is the keen survey of the project and that their major purpose was to remove for them poverty the citizens who lives in that valley. the opinion of the sponsors of the project, keen survey for the project that is being implemented by the department of African Water facility AWF through African Development Bank, which have 3,549,000 Euros and the new partnership for Africa's Development Infrastructure Project Facility (NEPAD-IPPF) have 1,226,295 Euros, whereby the beneficiary countries: Tanzania contributed 596,610 and Malawi 407,610 Euros. the AFDB representative, Daniel Verdeil is explaining the importance of the project as being more than just controlling the border and that it goes along with the green development that was launched by the United Nations recently. Verdeil, who is an expert of AFDB water resource management, says the Songwe River Development Project will also assist in dealing with climate change and will stimulate further development through electricity, agriculture and fishing projects, and will expand employment further. he refers to electricity production projects that directly affect climate change in which greenhouse gases can be controlled, to reduce dependence on fuel and fuel consumption. Verdeil mentions irrigation farming will allow citizens living in the valley to deal with climate change due to the farming being one of the strategies to reduce the effects resulting from drought and flooding. despite the positive attitude of the donors on the project, Malawi's minister of water and irrigation, Ritchie Muheya, urged the African Development Bank to continue receiving the applications of the two countries on the project until its objectives are completed. he said, the project is a sign of the major relations existing between the two countries. the head of Mbeya region, Abbas Kandoro, on the other hand, noted that the project is beneficial to most of his province's citizens due to five provinces out of seven of that region being in the project. these districts have been mentioned including Kyela, Ileje, Mbeya rural, Mbozi and Rugwe, due to the fact that Kandoro has urged citizens in those districts to be good participants in order to achieve the project and avoid establishing unemployment disputes. already, citizens, especially in Kyela district, have started getting hope in combating floods which are among the effects of climatic changes, as well as River Songwe's trend of changing its course during every short rain season.
T387 famous film artist is dead written by our author published: 25 October 2016 a film artist in the country, Haji Jumbe or Mister Benson has died yesterday and is expected to be buried today at his home Bagamoyo Coast region. Jumbe who in the film Siri ya Familia has been playing as Mister Benson, died in Kinondoni hospital after he had been ill in the stomach for a short time. according to the Executive Secretary of the Tanzania Film Board, Joyce Fisoo the drama of the family secret is being aired every Monday by EATV television network from 6:30 in the evening. Mister Benson has acted like a man betrayed by his wife, where he believed he had a big son, instead his wife betrayed him with his friend. he said that Tanzanian film board has received with great sadness, the report of the death of that hero artist which occurred at that hospital popular as Doctor Mvungi, Kinondoni, Dar es Salaam. Jumbe is among famous actors whose contribution will be kept in mind. some of his other works he performed are together with, Siri Ya Mama, Kelele, Kaone Jiwe and many others. the Lord has given, and the Lord has taken away, let the name of the Lord be praised.
T386 Sheria Ngowi: discontinuance is the measure of just clouds. October 06, 2016 by our online writer it is not easy for the fashion designer to get to the point of being popular and reaching out to many people. it requires to be with high level of creativity. the biggest designers in the world for many years did not reach to those reputations easily. it is by work and talent especially. for a designer to be considered among the biggest designers, he must be successful in the major fashion towns in the world like Paris, New York and Milan. and that is how it is for the likes of Gabrielle "Coco" Bonheur Chanel, Donna Karan, Giorgio Armani and Calvin Klein. it is also the same thing to the likes of Donatella Versace, Ralph Lauren, Pierre Cardin and Yves Saint Laurent. it does not matter how long the designer has been around, but prosperity depends on the same things. and those are what our Tanzanian youth Sheria Ngowi went through. yet he has not managed to travel to those fashion towns of the world, but nothing is preventing him from doing so. it is true that many of the popular fashioners in the world come from the country of France and America and few from Italy. but the truth remains there there that Sheria Ngowi for now is in his own space in this field of fashion especially for men clothes. and that is why I have the audacity to say that to all the Tanzanians to be behind him and to support him, he will reach to also to be known more in the East African countries, Africa and later New York, Paris and Milan will be just time. white men say, only the sky is the limit. together with the popularity of this youth in fashion, he is also in the social network just like many other businesses across the world at the moment. and that's exactly why I would like to look at this youth. in Twitter, Sheria Ngowi is followed by 32,818 people and follows 644 people. among the famous people that he is following in Twitter include senior national leaders like Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, President John Magufuli and several ministers. also, there is a respected intellectual in the country called Professor Issa Shivji. others are renowned politicians in the continent of Africa like Dlamini Zuma who is the chairperson of the African Union Commission, Kizza Besigye who is the leader of the opposition in Uganda, Allassane D. Quattara, the President of Ivory Coast. also he is following Barack Obama, Mike Tyson and Calvin Clein. in Facebook he is followed by a total of 19,229 people. this makes him to be among the Tanzanians with a great influence in different social media. in a big way he uses Facebook in order to show different clothing designs, especially men's suits. in addition to showing clothes and different styles there are issues that he has been writing about and pleases me truly. he uses all two languages of English and Swahili with great eloquence. one of those issues is when he wrote that, and I quote," all days I have been believing and knowing that every part of my life has been a part of God's plan because of me". every step that I make, takes me closer to my real dream. father told me to be patient, and most importantly to pray because of greatness. in Twitter he uses that website mostly because of informing Tanzanians on different matters happening in the country that is together with putting pictures of those happenings. this is as a result of the truth that the Twitter social media has been used more by people who instead of putting matters concerning them more personally, instead they have been putting national issues or development thoughts more, different from other media. in the day that I am preparing this article is the day that by good luck this stylist is born. I wish him good memories of being born, good life and more greatness in designs and fashion in the country and in the world.
T385 13 December 2012 Chilungo: a writer who lost their eye pupils by Rashid Mkwinda "what is happening in my feelings right now is how I used to see in the past, has remained to be an everlasting image that will never get lost... it is only an image that has remained in my head that is coming like a cinema, my emotions interprets different colors and atmosphere I saw before becoming blind," Mussa Chilungo (60) starts narrating this ordeal. Chilungo is a journalist who has currently lost his pupils and light of his eyes, he does not see anything passing in front of him, but what remained are the emotions of sounds and memories going round his head which he uses to interpret in his thoughts according to some of the doors of comprehension he remained with. the only sense organs old Chilongo uses currently is the mouth, nose, ears and his skin whereas one of his sense organs which is the eyes currently don't have the ability to see and that has been his current weakness, initially, he was healthy with two eyes just like any other human being. for anyone who knew Old Chilungo before will recognize how skillful and creative he was in his journalism profession especially in the radio station where he used to work, The radio of the council of Ruangwa district which is in Lindi province. when you meet old Chilungo the first thing you will recognize is his ability to identify the voices of the people he used to work with in different times in different regions in the country, be it his journalism profession or in his service in the government. he knows a person by name provided he hears his voice ones and that is the only identifying talent that the Almighty God has given him after his eyesight departed him. Elder Chilungo's record is in his mind and in form of imagery in his brain and thus no one can say who he is, you cannot differentiate his ability from any other person with complete organs and this ability is among the things for which he thanks the Almighty God. "this is my destiny, I don't blame the Almighty God giving me this disability, I believe that before you die you have not been created and God does not stop creating everyday," says old Chilongo as he explains the greatness of the Almighty God and what he has been destined for. "the ways I used to pass before I can pass by myself without being led by anyone, my disability does not bar me from doing daily activities although there is a difficulty I go through but in this period of three years of my blindness I have started getting used to," he says. just like it is a need of most people without any kind of disability, Oldman Chilungo has needs that is compatible with people of that kind but as a result of challenge that met him, he has accepted that situation although unwillingly but it is the actual situation and that is how his life is right now until the end of his life. "truly before you die you have not been created, I was healthy, looking with two eyes just like you are looking but right now I don't have eyes, I interpret voices in emotions," Oldman Chilungo explains. Oldman Chilungo who is a father in a family of five children was born in 1953 in the village of Ndekenyela, Ruangwa district in Lindi province got his primary, middle and secondary education between 1969 to 1972 from Lindi secondary school where before that he was in school in the year 1970. he says that he was among the teachers who were chosen to teach the elderly Lindi town between the year 1973 and later a school of parents community which is in Amani in Dar es Salaam and later in the year 1976 he moved to Mwanza province in Ukerewe district. "there I taught in Mulutunglu and later went back to Lindi province and chosen to be the head teacher in Nyangamala primary school which I was with for different periods in different schools until the year 2000 when I was appointed to be journalist officer of Ruangwa district council," he says. Chilungo who is also a husband to one wife who he identified by the name Zainab Liwikila says that he went to study journalism profession in Bagamoyo where he later continued with journalistic work until 2009 when he got blind. the source of blindness, Mister Chilungo says he does not know the source and the actual problem of his sickness but what he knows is that he started losing sight after a headache, "initially I started seeing darkness, eyes lost energy, I went to CCBRT hospital Dar es Salaam, I was told that I have a problem of blood connecting with the eye I was treated but I did not get better," says Chilungo. he says that his thoughts shows him different pictures like cinema having different colors which he used to see before he went blind and that together with being in that situation he continued with work until when he retired teaching in the year 2011. he has managed to build a house after getting blind whereas when he was healthy he never had the ability to build and that it has given him consolation since with the blindness he would have been a liability to the community had he been living in rental houses. about his journalism work and his cooperation in the community of journalists of Lindi province, it's the representative of the acting committee of the club saying that together with being in that state of eye weakness, he still gets a great cooperation from his fellow journalists of the journalism club of Lindi province and those from Northern provinces. "I thank all journalists from the Northern provinces who were touched in their hearts by my condition when we met more than 150 journalists in Iringa province, most of them shed tears and donated to me, this unity should be continued to others with problems like mine," he says. he says that his club leaders including the chairman Abdulaziz Ahmed have been involving him in different activities and seminars that goes through the club without considering his condition. he clarifies that there are his fellow journalists that give him assistance such as Juma Mweru who helps him in editing and going in the streets to record various programs which he broadcasts on the radio. "Mapunda and Mweru have been a great help to me in my blind situation, they give me help with work and enable me to sustain my daily work well," he says. he calls upon other people with disability to accept the state they are in and live like before and that such kind of problems should not be the start of living in dependence where also the government and private institutions should not isolate the physically challenged and to give them priority.
T384 Davido's 6 heavy words after Diamond Platnumz's channel O 2014 victory. the victory of three channel O 2014 awards that Tanzanian Diamond Platinum took has been big not only to Tanzania rather to Africa and it's corners, where among those who wrote after Diamond won is Davido. this Nigerian artist who did a remix of Diamond's number one wrote on his Instagram page >>> Tanazia stand up! he did it and then he mentioned Diamond Platinum. in this post, Davido, who didn't get any channel O award even though he was competing, has got more than fourteen thousand likes from his followers who are more than four hundred thousand while comments were more than seven hundred.
T521 TANESCO manager is instructed to follow customers in the rural areas. written by Veronica Mheta, Arusha. published: 28 September 2016. the minister of energy and minerals, Doctor Medard Kalemani has ordered the Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited manager (TANESCO) Manyara Region, Gerson Manasseh from now to follow the company's clients to the rural areas, rather than staying in the office waiting for customers. he gave that order yesterday in the villages of Losinyai and Kilombero, Simanjiro district when he visited to inspect the Rural Energy Agency (REA) projects and ordered that electricity to have been lit by yesterday in those two villages. he ordered that if electricity will not be supplied he should be given a call in order to hold responsible the manager and the contractor in charge of the work. Doctor Kalemani said it was sad to see the people spend many expenses following the services at TANESCO offices while they are customers who should be given the service to their place. "I am saying from now on, I don't want the citizens to follow you in your offices, open branches in the villages so that the citizens can access easily because it's annoying, this citizen gets money in difficulty, and then incurs the cost of following you in your offices" "and when they come sometimes, they do not find you, you are on lunch break and they go without getting the service, I do not want to hear this and if you do not do this, citizen give me the information I fire someone," said Doctor Kalemani. in addition, he ordered an agent under the Rural Energy Agency (REA) in Simanjiro district, Yared Zhang of Consolidated Contractors Company CCC Nigeria, to pay staff who assisted him to supply electrical appliances in rural areas, their money which at the moment is 13 million shillings before 30th September this year and if they are not paid by that day he is to be informed. regarding technicians who install electrical cables in the house, he ordered them to be the ones given letters by Tanzania Electrical Supply Company Limited and not fakes, so that when the houses burn the people to know that they are owed by the organization and not otherwise. he also used the opportunity to award two elderly men, Elias Lukumay of the Kilombero village and Looki Kimbele of the Losinyai village, a special device called Umeta, which does not need to install electrical cables inside for electrical integration, but itself enough for a house to install electricity. "but others to buy the equipment at 36,000 shillings, I pray that even grass houses will be connected with electricity, the aim is for everybody to get electricity," he said. Simanjiro District Commissioner, Zephania Chaula said if the people fail to get electricity in the second phase of REA, they shouldn't complain as they will get it in the third phase. Simanjiro member of parliament, James Ole Millya, thanked the deputy minister for visiting and quickening electrification, but he urged the TANESCO staff to distribute electricity to religious institutions and schools, as well as Chadema cadres, as some of them were discriminated against.
T520 well hyp water source village
T310 body evf anatomy respect
T311 maybe I ask you -- I see they are two here . the instrument that decides the starting or when a person decides to be a broadcaster or a reporter of news there are just two things that are -- that are being highlighted . you decide to become a famous news reporter or with respect . or you start a news' media with reputation and respect because of the two intentions of the colonial language meaning credibility and popularity . let's try and look into this why am placing fear that the action of western news organizations to put money on (()) on the reporters . belonging to them transporting and bringing them one by one to come to Garissa so that they do a live coverage from Garissa and some even broke their program schedules to do live analysis from Garissa and others added . I have heard you say that some news organizations reached a point and used fifteen minutes time on a half an hour program because of the Garissa event made credibility different from us here that our local news organizations decided not to take even a report there in Garissa and remained to use those same western news organizations to scoop news . why for us it damaged the credibility and popularity of our organizations and build the credibility and popularity of those organizations that took people there . by giving them respect and popularity can you as a journalist . do an event or cover a certain story . that gives you credibility and popularity and it gives credibility to your news organization that you are working for . in case -- any news organization would have offered to go and send a news anchor or their reporter to go and cover a story from Kenya it would give -- it would give -- it would give that news organization it would give credibility . but that reporter that went would earn popularity . give me the difference and -- and this fellow who is saying that it's -- it's -- it's they would have earned credibility without popularity popularity would be got by that reporter who have gone to Kenya . people would have remained to be known that ahh a fellow came out really all the organizations failed but a reporter came out and went to Kenya it's a must he would be known . and if he treated that story well this story he would have done well if I take for example because we were unable I say like B_B_C did it . that reporter would have gotten a great credibility in this country that is a reporter that offered himself to go to -- Kenya and even gave us the whole events that were going on let's look forward to go to B_B_C to watch . let's remain our local organizations and it's the reason why -- our local organizations . lack many viewers . you can find people really seated waiting for thirty minutes of the whole day but our local news organizations a person not watch even a little . because he would not find that what he wants . and when you miss that what you wanted a news organization you disrespect it . it reduces its credibility and also it reduces its popularity . but for -- for for my small experience -- in these matters of the program while I was a news and programs student that I got to serve because I find myself also serving in -- in these education institutions that teach journalism and this period am doing these news reporting jobs one of the things that I experience with time is to be taught news reporting many times people were being told they were talking about sources of news . they are told sources of news they say there are material sources and human sources . and people are taught in the university that material source itself is a source of news . there are programs that require you to go one by one from within what you are required to do close yourself inside your room watch what other organizations have recorded here and there then if it is written in English you your job is they are taught there are people in the rooms -- news universities just make it the same way and translate it in English from Kiswahili . come on to Kiswahili then feed your people . and that is how we do -- in international news many news organizations do and that is how Kenyan event has happened release farther others leave completely . but those written -- what they did is just recording what B_B_C has said ? you change or direct Al Jazeera has said what I don't know what ? that what has Citizen T_V of Kenya said ? what is the need of going when there are other organizations and in the university they are taught there are something called physical sources . I think maybe for a person who has studied physical source and -- and -- and -- and human sources will recognize that when you use a physical source -- when you use a physical source and human source what is its harm . for example if you use physical source it's very easy to get what you want . but physical source for the viewer watching you or for him -- who is listening it is difficult to believe than human source . for example you have read the writings of maybe a certain learned professor may be he said this and this and this but he who has gone and done an interview with that professor whom will get credibility and whom will get popularity ? he who used human source . human source -- characteristics of human source gives credibility to him who used the characteristics of -- physical source -- the effect of physical source -- it brings laziness to a news reporter . for example you have used a physical source you have gone and read you have locked yourself inside and just read when we come will see you just a jealous person . and journalism is not sitting inside and locking yourself even though it's allowed to use that as reference in that which am talking about . that this one said this and this and this but now I have gone and talked to him this and this and this give a person something to see . give a person something to listen to . physical sources are very big indications of laziness and are the things which are used in our news organizations . people are lazy to get out .
T312 <no-speech> <no-speech> I am preparing myself . will I just come unprepared ? I should know if there is traffic I should also know if where I am going -- alcohol is sold at such a time . (()) . <no-speech> you have (()) . <no-speech> I don't want to get arrested . <no-speech> ahh you have -- you can't be arrested . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> in the bar what time is it now ? you cannot be arrested . <no-speech> <no-speech> this is the right time to start -- taking alcohol . <no-speech> no I usually respect the law . I start drinking from when it is dark not five . <no-speech> but when darkness comes . <no-speech> if I just said right now -- just right now Aleki man . <no-speech> because you know why what if we get arrested ? mm . <no-speech> if we are caught by the -- police who will get me out of trouble ? will you get me out ? or you have enough bail ? I -- I assure you you will be out do not worry . <no-speech> <no-speech> are you a police officer tell me first ? maybe you are a police and I don't know . <no-speech> you know my father is a P_P_O ? <no-speech> your father is what ? <no-speech> he is chief P_P_O .
T313 recognize the loses of getting an employment through corruption unemployment is a challenge of the whole world. what is different between one country to the other is the size of the problem. every human is pressed by the basic needs, fulfilling them without money is also impossible, getting money without difficult. the main source of ma in many people is to be employed or in the government or private institution. that situation is what causes many people to be ready to do anything in order to be employed. when asked about bribe money, there are those forced to use their body as gifts to the one offering employment. those without money promise several months of salary depending on the agreement. you can find a person who is starting to work and instead of their situation being good because he has sure income, life continues to be hard. instead he is working for a person. there are some who are turned into slaves of love. whenever the job provider needs to fulfill his bodily desires he just requests. in one office you can even find five people that contributes love to the job provider because they were given jobs through the same fashion. bribing in order to get a job is a result of ignorance. you should understand that when you get employed it means that you qualified for the criteria of the job meaning you seem capable to perform the job you were asked and produce results, now what's the bribe for? there are losses that you will face if you will enter the job through bribing. if you understand them they will guide you to refuse bribes. job slavery happens when you get employed through bribes and not when you are qualified according to your qualifications in the curriculum vitae and experience together with how you answered the questions of the interviewers. the person you bribe places you in the same category with those whom he gave jobs, for that he will command the way he wants job-wise because of the presumption that without him you would have not been employed. you may think that the bribe you gave him is the qualification for him respecting and giving you value. there you are lying to yourself, since when you were offering bribes is there any place you registered and signed? it's because there is no written agreement that is why he is arrogant and you cannot catch him on anything. furthermore, you will live telling people that a certain boss you gave money to employ you but the way he is oppressing you at work you will think that you entered the job without paying anything. about bribe of using your body, refuse it completely. usually, whenever he uses you there is no binding written agreement. after two days if he turns against you there will be no witnesses. important guiding questions are these, employment and your body, which over which? you ask for a tendering coordinator job one person on the panel of employers decides to use your body, is it your body that he will see your capability in the job you asked for? whoever wants to use your body to give you a job does not respect and value your personality. you are supposed to ask yourself how many has he used in the same way? its result is that you get the job then find 10 of whom were used by the greedy boss. a hundred for his profit. job security can provide the money and even body then you get employed. whoever you bribed with money or body is who can give recommendations that you be stopped from work and you cannot get any help even if you decide to say what you have. first, bribe is a secret oath. you cannot announce that you gave out the bribe just like the receiver cannot admit that he received. bribery is a sin and a big mistake, for that it remains a secret of the giver and the receiver. you can offer the bribe and received then you are denied the employment. you cannot sue anywhere that you gave bribe because you will be taking yourself into troubles. when you get employment after giving bribe, all days you will be under pressure whenever you hear the information of employees' inspection. because you will be afraid for your goodness if it satisfies the levels of the office. surety of the employment is that which you are employed after you are seen that you will be of help in the institution involved. and you believe in yourself because you were given good recommendations after answering well the interview questions. when you are carried to enter into the job you cannot believe in yourself. that way you will be worried whenever matters of employees' reviews are done. when told to just present your original certificates of school you will start worrying even if you have them all. reliance on the giver of employment when enters into the employment to produce good employees that will make him get success. he who accepts to be bribed it means that he wants anyone as long as he is given whatever he wants. for that reason if you see a person asking for bribe know that he is not the owner. he is just misusing the opportunity he has been given. for that reason know that if he was put then he can be removed and replaced by another. the world has no secret in any institution that the employment procedures are not implemented by one person. if he who is at the highest position gave the instructions of you being received at work opposite to the procedures because of the bribe you gave him, that cannot be a secret anymore. words will be communicated and will spread. you were told that there is no secret of two people. the spread of those words is destructive to your employment together with the recruiter that you bribed. people will talk and you will say that it's a team, but even so they will be surprising the top leadership that if it decides to take action you will not remain safe.
T314 the needy in Kelewa given 51 sheets. written by Sifa Lubasi, Chemba. published 30 October 2016 the needy elderly of Kelema Balali village in Chemba province have received 51 relief sheets worth 500,000 shillings. those sheets have been provided by National Social Security Fund NSSF of Dodoma the donation was handed over to the Secretary of help the Needy organization Tanzania (SAWATA) Dodoma, Oswin Kachenje on behalf of those elderly on the day of health check up, which coincided with allocation of reading glasses that took place at a provincial level in Kelema Balai Village. Assistant Manager of NSSF Dodoma, Maneno Mpogole, said that together with various development activities that are being done, that organization do also help those with problem in society. "we have realized in this village there is a total of 306 elderly people even though they are also being given health treatment, but we have also decided to give them these 51 sheets and body covers, it is our hope that they will assist them," he said
T315 how to plan when thinking of breaking up with your lover last week in this article we saw that to start a relationship is not an easy thing and it is a process with many challenges. also ending it is not an easy thing and it has a series of hills and slopes and many people it troubles them and to regret they are making a bad decision that leads into bad results or planting a seed of destruction in future. it is indisputable truth that it is not a must or by force for everyone entering also in a relationship you end up living together in life (here I mean those who are still not married). relationship starts and also dies, again for many different reasons including the lovers' lack knowledge of the best way to relate with each other. the level of investment, hardness or ease of ending a current relationship can be brought by the level of investment that you did with your partner. if you have invested more in a relationship there is a big possibility to have hardness in breaking off or accepting to leave each other but if have invested little then it is easy to allow or accept that chance of separating when it comes up. this investment is not only in the field of economy but also in emotions, socially, spiritually and other areas. you may have met for only a short time, but there are many development things you have done together. these things mostly your heart hesitates to permit them to get lost easily, you'll find that you try by all means in order to save your relationship and to continue what you did together. investing in family is when you allow your relationship known by many people starting from siblings to friends, when a storms comes that is cause your separation, when you think of many people who know you and respect your relationship, you see that it is best you try hard to save the boat. all these and many others situations that can enable you to know how investing in a relationship can ease or bring hardness the time of breaking up. the level of lack of satisfaction as one of them or all who are in a relationship are not satisfied by happiness, enjoyment, and love that each one of you gets from the other then there is an ease of separation more than those who are satisfied with their relationships. it is possible a severe storm has hit your relationship but the truth is that, if both of you are satisfied with the way you love each other, in this situation you can sit down and decide to talk about that matter in order to save your union. contrary, if you are in a relationship and the heart of one of you is hurting every time and there nothing to be happy about, then anything that happens even if it is a small storm can cause your separation. the level of our satisfaction in the relationship that we are in is what can hold us together for the moment or all the time. the Evaluation of Benefits and Loss often the difficulty or difficulty of termination or affiliation can be relied on by each of you assessing the benefits or losses of your disagreement. suppose one or all of you see that your break up has a big loss than a benefit, then there is a big possibility that you all will have genuine efforts in saving your relationship from breaking. suppose you see or desire to end your relationship there are more benefits for you all or one of you sees that when you separate he will benefit more than getting loses then he will try hard how he can to ensure you are separated. if not for trying hard then there will be no excitement to engage in any trying hard to save your love because for him death of that relationship have more benefits than continuing. some of the things that can do a person to see that ending a relationship has loses includes having children, wealth, respect of the marriage, to be respected or to be known by the the society, aging and so on.
T316 who threw a child arrested by Gerald Bwisa Uasin Gishu County Police have arrested a 25-year-old woman who was found throwing a one month old baby in a water well. the woman was arrested yesterday by residents in the village of Kamagut shortly after throwing the baby in a water well. it is alleged that she had left her husband a few days before doing the brutal act. Missus Mercy Chirchir a resident in the village, who witnessed the act, said she was going to fetch water when she saw the woman throwing something into the well. "it was late and I was going to draw water to prepare lunch for my children, I was just a few steps before coming to the well and saw the woman throwing something in when she saw me she went back to her house if she had not done anything," said Missus Chirchir. she said she was shocked to find the baby floating on the water and she screamed at once to call the residents who arrived immediately. the residents went to the woman's house and reprimanded her for her actions. one old woman who witnessed the act objected to the act and asked girls who were unable to raise children to avoid the act of marriage or to go to hospital to be trained on using contraceptive methods. she said in doing so they would avoid such brutal acts. police took the baby's body to the mortuary at Moi Referral Hospital, Eldoret. the woman is detained at Soy police station waiting to be charged. elsewhere, body of a middle-aged man yesterday was found hanging at his home in Kameturi village, Bomet. Mister Bernard Chepkwony, who was believed to have committed suicide, was found by his relatives at dawn. the chair that he used, was found under his feet. the casual arrived at his home at eleven o'clock in the night after being drunk. Chepkwony's mother, Missus Esther Taplule, said his wife had escaped for several weeks. "he came home complaining. we reassured him and he left. we did not know it would the last time to see him," the woman who was flooded with tears told the National Today via telephone. more information by Anita Chepkoech.
T317 Menina: "I cannot give sex bribes so that I can be artist". the musician who emerged in the Epiq Bongo Star Search 2012 competition, Menina Atick has said despite of hearing that there are men with position in the 'game' of music who ask for sex bribery from the female artist so they they can produce them, she will mature and believes she will stand. while speaking on Friday recently, Menina who is causing discomfort with her song of Shaghala Baghala said that whatever she believes is that a female artist who has a talent even she does not offer sex bribery, she has an opportunity to shine therefore she will be an example to others. "me to give sex bribery so that I can go, truly it is not possible, I believe on myself, I will not agree to use my body by sharing love so that I can stand in music, first, with how many I will walk?" argued that artist.
T251 researchers reminded their responsibilities 10th November 2013 researchers have been advised to have a right way of giving research outcome in order to deal with challenges of different communicable diseases in Africa and anywhere else in order to build a strong community that will speed up development. the development shall be built through citizens with good health and their ability to get involved in economic activities daily. the call has been given at the end of the week by the acting director of the institute of Southern Africa Center for Infectious Disease Surveillance (SACIDS), Mark Rweyemamu in Kilimo university (SUA) in Morogoro province while closing a two days conference on the research and communication that brings together several researchers from (SACIDS). SACIDS is a union of 25 institutions in five countries in the North of Sahara desert to deal with the issue of health together with the principle that collectively involves human and animals, as well as the environment, in cooperation with eight Southern institutions. Rweyemamu said that researches are building knowledge and witness that must be presented to people such as government servants, non-governmental organizations and the society collectively so as to make sure that the citizens are protected against different kinds of illnesses. "this two day's workshop has aimed at connecting skilled researchers so that in unity, they talk in clarity among themselves together with the other people who target them," he said. "those taking part in the workshop include professors, research doctors, graduates and other professionals in research issues from Tanzania, Zambia and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). the workshop was provided by SACIDS in partnership with the institutes of London International Development Center, University of London," added Rweyemamu. in short, the program was a presentation on how researchers can be able to work with the media, followed by the exercise of action that was provided by the acting executive editor of Tanzania Standard Newspaper (TSN), Gabriel Nderumaki. Justin Musumu, participant from DRC during the workshop said, "these teachings have helped me know important principles of communication, particularly proper use of English language. I wish it was going on," he said. Aaron Mweene, another participant from Zambia added that, 'integrity and having a focused perspective are important things in eloquent communication. participants came out of that workshop with renewed strength and self-belief of having the ability to build positive systems of communication in their institutions at home where they come from. they stressed on writing short sentences, using social networks to present various research findings, to work with the media often and putting information about their research in simple language in order to meet the need of the of the people they target.
T250 Mbinga, set an example in the effective use of land written by the Editor published: 14th December 2016 yesterday, this newspaper published an article that carried the headline 'Mbinga Council surveys 70,000 plots.' the report ascertained that the council, which is in the province of Ruvuma, has completed the task of identifying various areas for housing, open areas and allocating sites for key social services. the executive director of the council, Gombo Simandito, explained that the action that the council took was in line with the implementation of a government order that requires every piece of land in the country to be surveyed in order to enable its owners to obtain a legal document that would help them acquire legal entities and serve in financial institutions as a guarantee of mortgage and capital. we would like to congratulate that council by taking that firm step, which will in a normal way, will enable that council to have a good arrangement for building houses, social services, and business areas and thus enable it to have an appearance and good arrangement for use of their areas. there is no argument also that the step will reduce fights for areas between the people because according to that process, everyone will understand early before taking any action of or of buying or building an area, to be able to identify with certainty that it's owned by who and that what has been planned to be in the concerned area. we would like to call on all councils in the country, to adopt this good example of allocating land use so that the locals can be sure of the use of their areas without quarreling or worrying that they will be moved. there are many areas here in the country, with major land disputes especially between farmers and pastoralists, to a level that sometimes causes great destruction to property including houses, livestock, and even killings as a result of not separating between agricultural, pasture and residential areas and thus becoming a major catalyst of conflicts inside the concerned communities. we would like to advise directors in the districts marred by conflicts between farmers and pastors, to also use the land specialists in their areas, to ensure that they take measures to survey and to specify how different areas will be used in order to avoid unnecessary conflicts. we believe that the main reason for having land management officers at different levels of councils and districts is to use their expertise, to plan effective use of land and ensure that these areas are used for the intended purpose. here we also like to remind the Ministry of lands and housing development, to remind its officers at the council and district level, to manage and implement by action the government's good intention concerning good land usage by ensuring, it has been properly measured in order to be able to have a plan that will bring profit from the usage of their areas and to enable them also to acquire title deeds, which will enable them to use them in various financial institutions, to access loans and to use them to break off from the pit of poverty by starting various projects. this is possible, we should take firm measures to manage and implement the best use of land. Mbinga have done it, why shouldn't the other councils follow their example?
T253 the journalism profession use information to make news. Mwananchi reader, Severine Leons Mashaka of the Ngerengere region of Morogoro asks: are those who transmit information through phone, private groups on networks - WhatsApp and blog are they journalists? this is a question that is asked in many parts of the world. it has raised debate that promotes commentary on information. read the answers section. contribute. it is easy to write anything. it is not that easy to write a statement. it is not easy at all to write information. in each area you need either understanding or knowledge or skill or all at the same time. in the age of cell phones, whether they are from major industries or alleys that are called "fake", everyone who knows how to join characters and make words that brings meaning, than writes what they want to say. he sends a greeting or any message. the phone owner satisfies the need, the right and liberty to communicate with those they want. he communicates on anything and in any way without any training on how to write. that is why people today are sending messages of greetings, they send "information" - as they see - on events: accidents, wedding, robbery, victory, construction and whatever they saw or heard. people share information among themselves. they write as they would have said. the message spreads: opinions are given in a common environment of communication between people and different ages - even those that were not aware of it. when it comes from the greeting section, message and information, you go to the section of "official information." this might be on government, ministry, company, organization, foundation or any administrative level. official information maybe provided by the one involved in the mentioned areas that are mentioned above there and many others. it is information on something, trend, tendency, behavior, changes, plans, preparations, or anything that writers of the information want to inform the wider community. the information providers in this area are those employed, that are confirmed by their employers that they understand, have knowledge and education for doing that work or experience on the involved equipment or studied. normally the government informants, organizations, companies, or other foundations - that are called "ladies/gentlemen relationship", have been trained in the field of journalism to serve the area they need. those are the ones that give the correct information on the offices that have employed them. it is important here to consider that honor and respect of the government, the company and the organizations is how they want themselves to be seen, even though they are not seen like that in the eyes of someone else. therefore, the role of an official informer is to also to build or promote what is called "elegance" of the his area of work, good behavior, best and above others. when we leave the area of "writing anything" and that of giving official information, we shall go to the area of news. here is where there is a big debate. it is here that we find journalists. these have studied this work in various ways including going to school and colleges: to study in the newsroom for official instructors and experience, or by private distance study inside or outside the country. news journalist call, enter, search office and other areas so that they can get information on anything they target. they question guards, executives, government chiefs, politicians so that to get information to enable them to get what they want. what the journalists are looking for, must be emphasized here, it's just information. by using the knowledge they got in school and colleges, by using the skills expertise they got from newsrooms and directions of their editors, journalists use the information they collected to write news. information is published, announced and shown in news instruments - newspapers, radio and television. what is written, has been heard and seen in those instruments is the item that is involved has decided to be called "news". the discussion climaxes where the question comes: which is and which is not news? can we get news from phone, blog or WhatsApp from one who is not a news journalist and without passing news instrument? if news is what you did not know or what is being hidden, and everyday we see new things even in announcements, is media information still right.
T252 of Kilimanjaro, Dodoma about girls is totally unacceptable written by author published: 18 November 2016 in this newspaper, we have written two articles that are in harmony relating to teenage pregnancy and sex in the provinces of Dodoma and Kilimanjaro. all such sad news is a bad sign in the welfare and development of this nation. in the first news from Dodoma, we were told that young girls from class three make love with drivers with big vehicles that are parked around Chalinze Nyama area, Chamwino district in Dodoma province. and in the second news, we were told that secondary students in Kilimanjaro province are leading in school drop-outs resulting from pregnancy. both the two reports that were based on a research that was authentically done and in the actual environment, are bad new to a nation that has set targets of elevating to the middle economy that relies on industries. we are saying that because in whatever ways, the expected economic success in the society relies more on the ability and professionalism of the concerned individuals, who most of the time relay more on education. that's to say, if the nation will continue to accumulate uneducated individuals because they deliberate decided to or formulated, going through tough hurdles of life for indulging in teenage love affairs and therefore stagnating or getting early pregnancy is evident the nation will have big losses since the workforce will not be educated and hence weak in issues that require technical skills. together with urging parents to take proper control of morals and behaviors of their children, there is a great need to emphasize on reproductive health education to have a nation with youths who respect their bodies instead of abusing them through indulging like in an exploration field and be ruined by it. we are saying that because, the statistics of Kilimanjaro province alone from January through to October this year shows that 216 girls in secondary have been impregnated, in Dodoma, in just one primary school, half of the girls who began from class one, did not graduate this year. in fact, all that is happening can be categorized as sexual violence, a situation that is unacceptable and there is need to deal the problem with all might. we are requesting everyone to help in monitoring our children to finish school as planed, rather than relegate a few institutions to undertake the persuasion which is disrupted by the exposed environment that have been overlooked by the parents. how can it be that young grade three, four and form one pupils indulge in sex with drivers while we parents and guardians are present? the meaning of this is very simple, we have left our young children to nurture themselves like indigenous chicken while we have failed to compete with the hawk who surround them all the time. what we want to emphasize here is that all parents are guardians and should know where their children are and they should not joke around on this. in the past, our forefathers despite having hard times and unfavorable living conditions, they managed to influence and nurture young boys and girls until they got to the stage of marrying or being married. besides, it's good parents and guardians to restore parenting to their hands by ensuring they know where their children are within the whole 12-hour period. we believe that if steps of these nature will be taken, it is evident that with the current speed, the future life of our daughters who are the most important symbols of the family anywhere in the world will be in doubt. we love to believe that while the situation is bad, we are not too late to work hard to save the state of professionalism and civilization and to have a nation proud of its responsibility for its people who make themselves the key to the life of this nation.
T255 these are the bad matters of Tanzanians on phone Dec 29, 2016 the director of Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA), Innocent Mungy, Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) has issued a list of bad manners in cell phone use, that many Tanzanians have, Raia Mwema can inform. at a time the number of Tanzanians who own cell phones continues to increase, bad manners that have effects on the user of those services continue to be worse. speaking to this newspaper this week, the director of communication of TCRA, Innocent Mungy, said bad manners like insults, using a phone without a limit, using a phone while it's charging and sleeping with a phone are just some of those bad manners. "another is to believe anything that enters in a phone and taking steps without taking caution, for example, spreading false information". "finding one's self in fraudulent traps and losing property by being joined in fraud problems or losing money". not having enough understanding and carefulness in phone usage. "many phone users don't read the rules and criteria of various uses of communication and many times download various programs and put them in their phones without knowing their benefits and harm". "to enter into the use of services they don't need, by joining without asking themselves and entering into costs without knowing why they do that and finally to complain that there are high costs of communication". "also, many phone users have had a habit of forwarding text messages (SMS) or pictures, without ascertaining whether they have morals and are suitable in the community. "someone you can have major problems by just doing this," said Mungy. in his interview with this newspaper, Mungy said the behavior on phone use by Tanzanians are not very different from their counterparts in the countries of the East African Community (EAC), but there is a difference with their counterparts from the community of SADC. "the manners of use of a phone to Tanzanians is not very different from the manners of usage of people of other countries of East Africa". but there is a possibility that, the manners of phone usage of Tanzanians to be very different from manners of some of the people of SADC countries. "for example, Tanzanians use their phones for money transactions, whereas use of phone for network money in countries of SADC is minimal and completely lacking in other places. "usage depends on the level of available services, in various countries together with its cost." "this causes one country to use some service more than another country". for example, internet costs and the availability of fast internet in one country, leads many more people to have the habit of using many services that use the internet on their phones. Mungy said, in recent days, there has been a big increase of phone users complaining of being defrauded through that way and said that is contributed to by lack of carefulness and greed of getting money or property for free. Tanzanians to be careful to protect important information that concerns their phones if this is together with not giving the number or password of their phones. furthermore, it's good before joining various gambling games that are played through phone networks, a person must get the correct information from the service providers before subscribing to those games. also, Tanzanians should abandon the greed for getting money quickly without working. they should remember easy becomes expensive. "don't implement any instructions that concerns to sending money in any way, before he satisfactorily ascertains and confirms that the person you're sending to or who gave you those explanations is truly the concerned party," said Mungy. Tanzania right now is estimated to have approximately 20 million phone users, and Mungy said, there is a big possibility of increased network usage as the service continues to penetrate villages where many Tanzanians live.
T254 fraudulent
T257 at your place . <no-speech> as I see this iron box is close to the curtain . pardon ? is this not a curtain ? mm . no . this is a curtain but down here is a piece of cloth . <no-speech> where lower again is another piece of cloth . <no-speech> down here is a piece of metal . but logically that for example it is not you maybe your sons or children because this is a place to straighten . mm . he will come and see this too plugged here but this is -- this is a sponge mattress . pardon . doesn't someone sit on this ? there is a sponge inside but also this a cloth logically possibly it is not there maybe it has been put here today accidentally . <no-speech> but the boy passed and straightened -- kept on straightening here . something happened out there . pardon . I know when he grows up he will remember but if he is like of a certain age he might hear there is a commotion out there while stretching and this too becomes this way . being able to go out there depends on if he had -- had set it on very little heat and has his thermostat . there is something in here which breaks when you overheat there is somewhere you chose the level of heat that I want to stretch using a certain amount of heat . so it cuts %incomplete when it lowers so much it connects . but you can find an iron box whose functionality is dead . it means that when he keeps it this way then maybe it happens that there are people passing by and they distract him to go and see them the iron box will keep on heating -- will keep on heating -- will keep on heating to a level of heat that it's supposed to light . <no-speech> when it will have burnt this curtain and that one catches on . but there are some couches that have sponge inside when he comes he will find the curtain has already caught the ceiling board and it is itself burning meaning everything in here has caught fire . except in different heat conditions . the wood will have its heat level and this cloth will have its heat level . if it will have -- they cooperate in lighting the fire ? they all cooperate . really . when they will come here they will find the whole house full of smoke eh and unfortunately we have not looked if there is an emergency door for those inside to exit from the back %incomplete therefore everyone coming from inside will call smoke has filled in here will be going back inside . those outside and the owners will not be able to get in . will anyone get out ? <no-speech> and no one gets in . tell me lady . no one gets out and no one gets in there . we therefore would like that when you are doing this tasks you are a grown up of age -- of a child should do his work to completion . and when he is done he should switch it off . he unplug it . but also when he finishes there is a position it is supposed to be in . pardon ? there is a part it is supposed to be in no . it is put down and very far from things that can catch fire . it stays that way because if you turn it that way %incomplete it will therefore keep on cooling -- it will cool . therefore everything stays safe . this -- I have accepted today's lesson and I think it will just have a good message . anyone who has electrical appliances should be careful . more this will help a lot if you spread this knowledge to the whole country . most of those affected do not know . but for example I did not know that when you iron close to the window it can bring problems . even though I switch off power it can happen as you have said a grandchild can come and switch it on as he does not understand . where the fire comes from . and I will try to change the system -- the system of -- the domestic wiring system . it is important to set electricity infrastructure in relation to the needs of a house in order to ensure safety in the use of electricity . that cropped electricity (()) .
T256 window
T138 yes . <no-speech> Zubeida is there anyone you have seen -- have you seen anyone talking to Victor ? were they saying I know him . there are things we talked about him . where did you meet ? <no-speech> we met in -- in our university <foreign> he is a stud -- he was a student in (()) Beijing university . so off to school he goes -- he (()) we communicate quit often . so we knew each other well . and he is currently at work . so Swahili has enabled him to get employment . yes . teacher you have seen China and Victor has talked to his sister who is at Startimes but also there are others from Eastern Africa . there is that sister there she is a presenter from Tanzania but there is another one there from Kenya therefore there are Tanzanians who are there because of spreading Swahili language but also to do various activities . therefore it is also an opportunity or an association that is run between Tanzania and China . what do you have to talk in relation to what we watched . it is true honestly I am so happy today I have seen that this association should continue of Tanzanians going to China and even involving themselves in various things . because several of them have gone there to put Swahili in Chinese frame . eh that it shows the good results of our language that the same way someone understands in his language he gets the theme of the film . and I think too it is and opportunity for Tanzanians or for the country for the government -- for our government precisely this issue of (()) that we have a university totally for Swahili language . meaning we don't include them -- include them in universities . meaning if it is possible the country should completely put up . if you know you have things that honors you he says is the university for foreign languages . because this is a university that is completely independent it does not have any other course . therefore I think when they come here themselves (()) totally there is a Swahili university here . it has been put up in Dodoma it has been put up in Tabora it has been put up anywhere in our country . (()) when they are there it is wholly language . meaning if it is Swahili it is wholly Swahili . it gives also gives them an opportunity to learn . they don't mix up with people from other courses . there (()) only . I think it is possible through I think this science <foreign> it is possible things happen . and just teachers teach these languages they (()) we are talking were you happy when you were teaching them those noun classes aren't they ? eh in singular and plural (()) A-WA U_I I-ZI Li-YA KI-VI eh ? and so on you were happy . and they are saying that they are admitting you into the university Swahili I said the difficulty is in grammar . they say grammar is the rule in Swahili . -- grammar is the guiding principle . there may be prefixes there are illustrations yes there are verbs . we look at the relationship between words especially -- nouns and verbs . we say grammatical coordination . I was teaching them there at Sharifa's . Sharifa you said earlier on you too like films that attracted you . are there any other Swahili films or plays you have watched ? or have been translated from Chinese to Swahili ? I watched -- your television your name is Life of Dodo and -- Father's life . it -- it is very good . I can learn Swahili from it . because I once read the Chinese language and also I liked to watch the Swahili language . I can know more about Swahili . Maudodo the play Maudodo and his mothers-in-law is a play that our viewers here T_B_C used to enjoy . and when we are talking about Swahili we are talking inside it we have artwork there is music there are issues of even -- also our traditions talks about Swahili as a tradition . there is native music as well . but there is also writing on the issue of books on %incomplete there are a lot of things . especially maybe Zubeda which kind of art attracts you that is done in Swahili ? (()) maybe it is a song . music . music . eh I -- I once -- hear -- I once heard many Swahili songs by stars -- music stars like Diamond or Lady Jaydee . you heard them when you were in China ? mm yes . and do you like can you maybe sing in Swahili ? eh I can sing just a little bit . let us hear entertain us . we can sing together . Angel . Angel I love you Angel . Angel I love you Angel . what should I do . <no-speech> I could have married you Angel . dear T_B_C One viewer the program is Lulu za Kiswahili and today we are talking Swahili to the guests . and we have Zubeda Tang together with Sharifa Cheng . these are students who are learning Swahili in the university of Dar es Salaam and they are learning .
T139 the lost opportunity: if I was the president I would have spoken Swahili the tour of Obama the Swahili language of the Swahili people is like a bastard on the coast of the Swahili people, poor and its mother dead at its birth, it was raised by its step father Mwalimu Nyerere who died from blood cancer. Swahili was left alone while young but its health is good, it continues to grow, congratulations to its step father who truly loves Swahili though he killed his wife during his birth. Swahili is an orphan who now has to grow on the streets again and be called a street child because he will never step again to the state house or international events, may be if Chissano gets back into power in that neighboring country, Mozambique. congratulations to Chissano for remembering Swahili although you passed Tanzania just to ask for assistance of liberating your country, being brave you did not forget the contribution of Swahili to achieve the issues of Mozambique. why have we lost all chances to grow Swahili, the council of Swahili just eats the finances of Tanzanians or what work does it do? it did not advise the president to use the opportunity of the coming of Obama to announce Swahili or was the president stubborn? the president is like an institution or this institution is the answer of being tricky to Makinda ANNE? congratulations Kenya Airways for announcing Swahili to the world. why should the president be frustrated to a point of using English while Swahili is there? even if the president is very good in English, there is no opportunity of announcing our nationally and Swahili? thus the Japanese, Chinese, Russians and Arabians when they speak their languages it is like they don't know English completely or they want to Mark correctly because of who they are, to be identified in the world that they are free nationalities and their languages are free for their own use. Swahili lacks that attraction at home and outside the country. sorry all these has an end or the day you die or the day you will be remembered, humiliation is the turban of crust. truly, Tanzanians you have really disappointed us again, one opportunity lost in the hands and the mouths of state house, it is very dangerous because it might never happen again for decades, the presidential advisors, state house what are you doing? what are you advising? why is it like you are stopping the president? what did he do to you that you are now paying for all that evil? did he not trust you to help him with the job? who will speak Swahili if it is not the president and the state house of Dar? what is wrong with Swahili that it is rejected in its home? I pray the government will think again and to create strategies so that the president and state house will speak Swahili in all the activities including the international ones, there is a day that shame will be very big, I am repeating whatever we are seeing is just a smell, there is a day we will the carcass itself. Swahili, Swahili, I love you my national language. I request to submit.
T428 temporary work
T429 his innovation is an answer to agriculture. by Benardine Mutanu technology has been his characteristic since the time he was an engineering student at the University of Nairobi until now. the work of Antony Mwangi of coming up with and innovating by using modern technology has put him on the map of reputable designers in the country. just recently, it will be possible to roast meat by using remote light (remote) through his amazing inauguration. Mister Mwangi who is 26 years old, graduated from the University of Nairobi (UoN) with an engineering degree last year and before graduating already he had got enough fame. he was among the youth who had attended the global innovation forum (GES) last year. he was chosen to be among the youth who attended that meeting because of his amazing innovation. when he was first mentioned by the media in the year 2014, Mister Mwangi had designed six major technological projects. he started by trying phone technology (GSM) and while a second-year student at that university, he had created a system that enables a user to switch off or switch on electrical equipment anywhere in the world. that system also can be used to switch on alarms, for example at home, in the car or protected areas if those areas will be entered into, he explained during an interview recently. by using that system, he was able to create a way of sprinkling water on plants without a farmer's presence, a project he did for a company known as Sunculture. he didn't stop there, that old UoN student right now is created a system of preparing roast meat remotely. he provides training to students of secondary schools concerning how to make electronic items like machines that work instead of humans (robot). he attended the Embu education day where he provided training yesterday after receiving more invitations, that he has shown his skill in various areas including the University of Nairobi, Kenya Power Company, and national agricultural shows. "in Kenya, there is no such training for students. but we have started to provide that training in order to strengthen technological ability in the country. we want to train students so that they can have the ability to make items that can help the community in a creative way," he explained during the interview. students are given real electronics training and how to make those items, "I remember former education minister Professor Kaimenyi praised that kind of training when I attended the Embu shows," explained Mister Mwangi. according to him, students should be taught electronics and computer programs when they are still young so that they grow knowing how to make items. "if that will happen, we will have the technological ability and there will be no need to import items from outside countries," he explained. already, he has provided training to Lenana secondary school students, Nairobi and he continues to provide training to students of Moi forces academy secondary education. he started the company, K-Technics that makes electronic prototypes, programs, and innovative items. that company also has an online shop that provides components for making electronic items. "usually we sell raw materials of accomplishing electronics projects and the skill of those projects to students, self-driving items and to make digital boards," explained Mister Mwangi. although of young age, Mister Mwangi is an employer and usually, he provides casual work now and then. he moved from Ngara, where he had offices earlier and opened his shop in the City of Nairobi. he has been getting tenders to create and accomplish projects from different companies. the GES meeting helped him much to get partners in major companies like Equity bank, the information, communication, and technology board, Lenana school and various managers at the county level. "the Kenya power company has helped me much because they gave me a chance, to show my creativity in their tent any time there are national shows (ASK)". he made a demonstration to that company concerning how to protect transformers, and pleased the management which decided to give him a chance that he would be doing shows in their tent. to him, technological creativity is the only way of strengthening development in the country. in the next two years, he intends to change the face of this nation technologically by providing training to more students and all who need to get scientific and electronics training.
T130 a great shame: she was found in the guests with her sister's husband... the daughter named Biena, a resident of Kawe Dar town, was recently embarrassed after being caught in the act (where she was) with her sister's husband. a careful source of the scene stated that Biena and her sister's husband, called Abasi, have had a long-term relationship before they were caught in the act. "Beina lives with her sister Saida's mother, she has been around her by walking with her in-law until we neighbors became angry. "now on the occasion Saida's mother who is pregnant was sleeping, we saw Abasi and Biena going to the guests. patriotism won us, and we saw we help the sister of the people find them. "we went up to the guests, and found them inside, Abasi has disappeared until today he is unknown, Beina went out and ran to her sister's home," the reporter said. a homeowner named Farida said it was true that the girl was walking with her in-law and her neighbors who were tired of her and decided to give her a lazy one. Biena when confronted she confessed to being found guilty but allegedly was attracted by a chicken chips, apologized before being sent home Tunduma. when Saida's mother was followed by the reporters to talk about the incident she failed because of her condition.
T131 in our episode of ask the doctor today we shall have Doctor Fredrick Ngusaru from Kwembe dispensary that is in the municipal of Kinondoni Dar es Salaam city who will answer the questions of the youths concerning different issues . please follow me . am called Farida Daudi . what causes blood deficiency in a pregnant mother ? and what damages are caused on the mother and the child ? blood deficiency at the time of pregnancy mostly is caused by the following things . she can get the deficiency as a result of -- of suffering from malaria frequently during pregnancy or similarly she can have a worms infections . it can cause a lot . because worms mostly attack nutrients' suppliers which helps in making blood in human being . another thing that can cause blood deficiency are types of foods that the mother will lack during pregnancy . mostly green vegetables and foods that are rich in nutrients for making blood in human body . therefore if she lacks good or better food during the time of pregnancy and that also similarly causes blood deficiency in the -- in the body of -- pregnant mothers . and its effects are huge which if a mother lacks -- when she has blood deficiency mostly it affects her herself together with the child . her herself it affects her first her feet swell she becomes weak because she do not have blood that can help her in a circulation in the -- her body becomes tired does not have %incomplete therefore she lacks those good nutrients which can cause the blood to be -- to be deficient in her body therefore she lacks energy . she lacks the ability to think . she lacks many things which can help her in building her body in different functions that %incomplete therefore she will become a person of sleeping . and also the child is very affected because the blood from the mother often the ones helping the child to transport all the nutrients which the child needs when in the womb of her mother . therefore if she will have blood deficiency it means that she will lack nutrients to build her herself and similarly to lack good oxygen in her growth in her body . therefore when she comes out she becomes weak . she lacks good feeding therefore it is easy to be ill frequently because she do not have good protection and those -- those many things which were needed during pregnancy or when she was in the womb of her mother she is lacking . therefore it is a very big effect on the child . therefore she can even be able to get -- she even can be able to get even to die inside of the womb or outside after being born because she do not have good immunity . she do not have good nutrients in her body . therefore are big effects on a child when she is born . what causes a person to lack sleep and what are its treatments ? first they are psychological problems . those can cause mostly a person to lack sleep . therefore the most important is to know what is your problem or he has what problem that is afflicting him till he is in a situation like that . therefore he may have depression . may be there is something which is -- he has thought about a lot . or there is -- he has gotten any problem -- that is surrounding him in -- in his life . therefore it is very good to know which problem that is assisting him . similarly other things that can cause lack of sleep are may be the drugs which -- may be addictive drugs or other dugs which affects the brain area can make a person to lack sleep . therefore it is a must to identify where this patient his problem is so that we are really advising him to go to the hospital or to get good counselor to help him so that his problem of lack of sleep to end . am called Husna Sudi Mohammed . some people face the problem of having stones in the kidney or the whole urinary system in general . what causes it and what are its signs ? mostly things which cause -- mostly some people to be faced with the problem of having stones in their kidneys or the whole urinary system in general are caused by the person lacking electrolytes which assists a lot to burn -- which are in the human body . now if a person lacks those elements which are there when he has many elements which have come from the body often causes swelling like marbles that becomes something like they say small stones . therefore -- the marbles are caused by elements which are called calcium or sulfate which those when are in high accumulation at the urinary tract often form marbles which causes this person problems of passing urine through those ways that has been closed . therefore its biggest treatment is diagnosis of this problem and be able to be given drugs that can neutralize those -- those elements that have closed or to be operated on generally if that problem would be difficult by way of drugs . thank you a lot Doctor Fredrick Ngusaru for your answers . this episode was prepared by me Mwanaharusi Kongwa . <misc> thank you a lot doctor for your answers to the youths . and now let's listen to a small play about health issues . <misc>
T132 Friday, October 21, 2016 six things to do when you are looking for a job. to look for a job is to enter into the labor market which basically is a field of connecting people who have great needs of two types. one side, there are people who are 'products' of skills and talents, but they have a need of getting an income by using their skills and the knowledge that they have. they are called job seekers. on the second side, they are people who are in need of that knowledge so that it can help them to increase success in the services they provide by using the resources and money to pay for that skill. they are called employers. these both sides need each other and depend on each other because the need of one side is the answer to the second side. so that you can be employed, you are forced to satisfy your employer that you have skills and the capability of using the knowledge that you have in increasing success of the services he provides. due to the reality that employees vary by skill and that capability and because the capability of various employers is different, and because it's impossible for every knowledgeable person to meet the needs of the employer, this is where the idea of competition in the labor market comes out. this is to say, so as to compete well in the labor market it's the responsibility of the person who is looking for work to prepare himself as required with the knowledge and skill. let's us look for six important things to do when you are entering into the labor market to increase the possibility of employment. build your identity your identity is like advertising the products that you have in the market. if you are looking for a job, your products are the skills that you have, knowledge and the thoughts that identifies you to others. it is very important to look for an environment to advertise your products. in today's world, communication has been made easy. get onto the internet, create your website by engaging in hard work and the areas you are popular. there are social sites like Facebook, Twitter, blogs, LinkedIn and all of them are very free. you don't pay anything more than being joined with the internet network. instead of using those networks to chat idly and to follow news that is not helpful, use it to show your the contribution you have in the community. through what you are writing, people will see you and it will help to increase your competition in the labor market. understand where information on employment is found. you are forced to follow up closely different sources of news to get information on employment. there are special websites that are prepared for people and private institutions for the purpose of sharing news of jobs. and the government, for example, it has a special page called http://portal.ajira.go.tz/ it helps you to get information on job positions in the government whenever they are available. as well, the Ministry of Labor and Employment has a special unit called employment agency (Taesa) which together with other responsibilities, it provides advisory services and statistics on employment issues to the employers and job seekers, to spread information on the labor market to different stakeholders together with connecting job seekers and employers inside and outside the country. let them follow up through their page http://www.taesa.go.tz/jobs. create a network most of the times, we expect that the job posts to be announced. but some other times, jobs are many especially in private sectors but they are not announced openly. the reason is that most of the employers have a character of looking for people who are trusted and some other times to be directed to people who can be understood. it is because of this, that it is important to create a network of people that are trusted who can help you to get information on employment once they are available. participate in conferences, seminars and workshops which together with enhancing skills, it will connect with different people who can be of help to you in the journey of looking for employment. volunteer to work without payment. the tradition of volunteering is not practiced in our community. the expectations of most graduates after completing colleges is to wait for employment that has a pay and they are not ready to do 'work that has no pay'. if you have looked for a job for a certain period of time and you are not successful, maybe the challenge is lack of experience that is needed by the employers. so as to confront this challenge, use that time that you are passing through by making yourself experienced without official employment. volunteer to work without payment. look for institutions that provide services that match with your skills. show the interest of finding experience. doing that will help you to improve your information on experience and therefore increase the chances of employment. prepare your documents well. the quality of your personal information puts you in a big position to convince the employer to accept you. use the period that you are passing through to keep well your personal information (Curriculum vitae) they will help you to improve your job application that you will send later. it is advised that you go through your information time to time in order to make them distinguish you well, who are you, what knowledge do you have, what education and experience. as well, it is important to prepare job application letters for each job that you apply. normally, application letters changes time to time in regards to the specific requirements of the job advertisement that is being requested. it is better to arrange all these document early so that it will be easy to rectify so that they satisfy the requirements of the job being requested for. reduce expectations, don't lose hope having an expectation of getting a better job that is respectable is a good thing. dream is important. but, other times, you can start with anything small that is found to enable you to get what you are aiming at. in a very competitive environment of employment, it is not wise to choose jobs. in addition, looking for employment is a process that can make you to get tired. other times, you can get answers that brings despair. there is no reason for you to despair. give heart being in life, there is nothing good without a cost. when you are hopeful, you can follow up on your issues keenly and more seriously. follow the work and employment magazine in the Mwananchi newspaper every Friday for topics like these. Twitter: @bwaya, Telephone 0754 870 815 written by Christian Bwaya
T133 if your wife is untidy, wash her, don't complain that high weight is a major reason that drives men to have a roving eye? if you are a brother or a sister who thinks that way then you have misguided thoughts. it is shocking to hear that women are the ones who spoil for themselves in relationships by adding weight arbitrarily, without considering modern dressing styles and to complain every time. if you are one of 'those' who complain because your wife has grown fat? what is it that caused the weight to increase? when you met her for the first time you saw her with that problem or men who look at their wives and get disgusted by what they see, then don't put yourself on the list of real men. the annoyance, she was a lady with the shape of a bottle? that lady is the way she is because of bearing you children, the effects on hormonal systems from use of some birth control drugs. whom do you think is happy to have that belly hanging on the body, even to a point they can't put on that modern jeans because of fat thighs? instead of complaining first when you met. about the issue of dressing, I am sure that many men who complain that their wives don't know how to dress, also have no idea concerning the cost of maintaining a lady. how will you expect you wife to be with Pauline if you see that the weight annoys you then help your wife reduce by taking her everyday to exercise, and after a year ask me if that lady will not have started to regain her shape that attracted you, want her to shine in modern dresses when you don't even give her a single cent? if you see that your wife's clothes do not excite you, take her to the shop and chose for her clothes that please you, and that is when you will know that the dressing preference your wife has is not to be ignored. do ladies' complaints annoy you? what does that lady complain about? maybe it is three years now since you last bought her a handkerchief or a panty, and her complaining is a means of telling you that you have ignored her. maybe her complaining results from a reason that the one hundred shillings you leave her everyday is not enough for domestic use. maybe her complaining is a result of you leaving her all the responsibilities at home, while you satisfy the needs of prostitutes in brothels. maybe that woman complains because she is tired of your behavior of unfaithfulness. don't expose the nakedness of your wife to prostitutes by telling them how she doesn't satisfy you, as an excuse of having mistresses out there. if she is dirty clean her up, if she is not appealing buy her make up.
T134 Mugabe, his companions are a big bother Africa. how can someone rule a country for three decades, hit the age of 90 and still prepare plans to contest for the presidency by 2018 when he has 94 years? even though he who gives and takes life is God, I am not sure if I say that of Mugabe is a plan to die in power, history is written that old age separated him from the country. a recent incident whereby the party of Zanu-PF appointed President Mugabe to contest for the presidency in the coming four years, is proof that he has no intention of retiring, to see Zimbabwe being led by someone else. and as if to remind those desiring to succeed him, it is treason to do that, Mugabe sacked Vice President Joice Mujuru. Missus Mujuru was believed to be among very famous people in that country, who were expected to take the reins of power when old Mugabe follows the way of answering a greeting. not only that! others who are stalking the leadership of Zanu-PF in order to succeed Mugabe, AIS Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe is a big shame for an African! and not Mugabe only, there are many who are stuck in leadership like those glued down, if he leaves power suddenly - maybe if he only dies - were shown signs that their ambitions won't be tolerated. it is in that regard whereby the wife of that president, Missus Grace Mugabe, was given a high position in the party to lead women. rumor says she is being prepared to succeed her husband! while that continues in Zimbabwe, our neighbor Yoweri Kaguta Museveni of Uganda said, Ugandans don't want him to retire because whenever elections are held, he can't miss ten million people who give him votes. that is another dictator who, since he overthrew the government in 1986, has believed that the citizens love him more than they love their country. similar to President Mugabe, Museveni has been suspected to prepare his wife Janet or his son Muhoozi to lead Uganda. the same situation is like that in Rwanda whereby President Paul Kagame, who has been in power since 1994, is believed to hold on to the position of the presidency as he waits for his son to mature in order to hand it to him. Kagame, who once said that he would like to retire by 2016 then said there was no one qualified, has been quiet for a long time concerning that announcement. like other dictators of Africa who believe only their families are the ones who can succeed them, the big he is doing Kagame is to kill his opposition who seem to have a major influence in that country. it is surprising to see that they don't learn anything as a result of incidents of years not many ago in the continent of Africa. the late President Muammar Gaddafi of Libya made the people tired of him and finally, he was killed while continuing to prepare his son Seif al-Islam to succeed him. former Egyptian dictator, Hosni Mubarak, was removed from power as he prepared his young son Gamal to take over leadership as he leaves. the problem of leaders who take themselves to be the best in their countries, to a level of believing it's only they who can give birth to leaders, is that they believe the greatest enemy is in the opposition. they use a lot of time, fighting their political opponents who announced themselves openly, they forgot the say of the wise men that, what eats you is within you.
T135 Chinese culture
T136 the importance of taboos in the African society. the greatest strength of taboos and beliefs in the African societies was to direct and control the behavior and conduct of people. the relations between in-laws were directed by certain taboos and ideologies. the major intention of the taboos and ideologies was to maintain respect, a good approach among in-laws from both two sides and promote good morality. it is not my aim in this article to try and take you back to the stone age so as to continue holding onto the culture and beliefs especially those that are obsolete, no never. in its place, I intend to show how the Swahili literature is full of wealth which wouldn't fit in a stack of books which dealt with oral literature in depth. additionally, despite deviation which is a fruit of the foreign tradition, the society can borrow from some of the items of the past as one way of dealing with some of conflicts which face the marriage institution every daybreak. according to the Kamba, it was a taboo for the daughter-in-law to bend with their back, chest or the waist pointing towards the father-in-law. this was viewed as lack of respect. therefore then, it was very important for that daughter-in-law to know where the father-in-law usually sat so as to keep a distance from him during the time of executing roles that required her to bend or twist like washing dishes, pounding cereals, winnowing cereals and serving food among others. by Enock Nyariki. furthermore, in that same community, a daughter-in-law was supposed to be covered well when the father-in-law was at home. wearing a long dress alone wasn't enough if a wrap cloth was not tied around the waist and maybe a scarf to cover the chest areas. it was an important thing for a Kamba man who intends to marry to inform his fiance of how she was required to dress the day her fianc's family visits her parents so as to avoid their relationship from breaking up prematurely by being viewed as disrespectful to her in-laws to be. according to the tradition of the Kisii, Kamba, Luo and other many African tribes, it was a taboo for the daughter-in-law to go into the bedroom of her husbands parents or a father or mother to enter into their married son's bedroom, regardless of the number of rooms the house had. that tradition has been held onto tightly by some clans in that, when parents visit their children in the city, a house should be rented for them even if those children have a sea of houses. the parents to the husband or wife would never accept to use the same bathroom that their children used to bath. according to the Kamba community, if it was a must for the daughter-in-law to go into the bedroom, maybe if the mother or father-in-law was in critically sick, then she was forced to leave money or a certain gift by the door before going into the bedroom so as to show that she had 'bought' that room. not going into the bedroom was a way of promoting respect between the daughter-in-law and her husband's parents. among many communities living in Nyanza, Western and Eastern areas of Kenya and in the Rift Valley it was a taboo for the husband to greet the wife's mother or the wife to greet the father-in-law by hand. apart from that, it was a taboo in many African communities for in-laws to use the bedding or covering materials of their children's wives. those things are together with blankets, sheets or even mattresses which their children had already used. arguments or quarrels of any kind by daughters-in-law with their in-laws was prohibited in approximately all African communities. it was not allowed for children to retort to their in-laws no matter how hated they were. however, the aping of the western culture has eroded and even swallowed up some of those taboos and ideologies.
T137 President Magufuli is meeting with the Member of the Central CPC Committee of China in the State House of Dar. president of the United Republic of Tanzania and chairman of Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Honorable Doctor John Pombe Magufuli, today, on March 22, 2017, met with a meeting with the Member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the Secretary of the CPC Committee of Beijing Municipalities in China Honorable Guo Jinlong. in this interview, Honorable Guo Jinlong has submitted greetings from the President of China and Secretary of CPC Honorable Xi Jinping who praised Honorable Doctor Magufuli for his efforts to strengthen the Tanzanian economy, fight corruption and reforms aimed at strengthening Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM) for the benefit of Tanzanians. Honorable Guo Jinlong said good relations and cooperation between China and Tanzania initiated by chairman the late Mao Tse-tung and National Father the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere will be promoted and enhanced and in a unique way thanked Tanzania for supporting China in international affairs. moreover, Honorable Guo Jinlong has promised to submit to the Central Committee of the CPC request for Tanzania to invite China to participate in the Standard Gauge construction of Morogoro to Dodoma and also invite the China Air Force to launch one trip between Beijing and Dar es Salaam to promote tourism, investment and trade. "I am very pleased for receiving us well and I assure you that we will continue to cooperate with Tanzania in various areas of our relationship including developing agriculture and industries in Tanzania," said Honorable Guo Jinlong. for his part, Honorable President Magufuli thanked Honorable Guo Jinlong for coming to Tanzania and bringing him a message from Honorable President Xi Jinping. Honorable Doctor Magufuli said Tanzania will continue to appreciate and enhance its relationship with China and asked Honorable Guo Jinlong for help to convince investors and Chinese entrepreneurs to come to Tanzania to invest in various sectors, especially in the industries, construction of transport infrastructure and buildings and develop agriculture. "please send me a message to Honorable President Xi Jinping that I welcome him to Tanzania and assured him that Tanzania is ready to cooperate any time with China in development and many useful things for the people of both sides," said Honorable President Magufuli. meanwhile, Honorable President Magufuli has witnessed the signing of three aid agreements issued by the Chinese Government in Tanzania which is the support of the expansion of the Tanzania Police School located in Moshi Region Kilimanjaro, US 300,000 dollars support for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African cooperation and a 20,000 dollar donation to support the government's efforts to combat drug abuse. by Gerson Msigwa Director of Presidential Communication, State House Dar es Salaam
T228 the revolution of agriculture or agriculture of revolution? October 30th, 2014. this article has resulted from the topic I submitted on the commemoration of world food day that was organized by the network of groups of small farmers in Tanzania (MVIWATA) and took place at the ICE hall, Sokoine University (SUA) on October 16th, 2014, under the motto "family agriculture: feeding the world and protecting the environment". so, will the dream come true? from the length of the topic itself, I have decided to divide it into three articles which will come out in three continuous weeks. I really thank you, the network of a group of small farmers in Tanzania for inviting me to submit the topic at these commemorations. although I was invited on short notice, I agreed to come for two reasons. the first reason is because I wanted to learn. I usually learn a lot every time I meet sweat breakers be it in the buses, stones or forums, concerning suffering being caused by the cruel system of modern day liberation, together with the means of combating it. therefore, my work will be to stir up the topic of debate. my second reason for coming is that, this week is a special week. it is a week that the vulnerable from Africa are commemorating the deaths of two prominent people of the fight for the vulnerable. those are teacher Julius Kambarage Nyerere and Thomas Sankara who was the Burkina Faso leader. the teacher died on October 14th, 1999. Sankara was cruelly killed on October 15th, 1987. these heroes are people who had taken a vow to break down capitalism and dictatorship, together with the institutions that served them. therefore then, today is also a day to meditate on their thoughts and their fighting strategies so as to use them to advance the fight against this cruel system. the sages said that "the good do not last"! this week is also the commemoration of the 70 years of the dummy called World Bank. this dummy born in 1944 had the responsibility of resurrecting economies in the European countries after being damaged severely during the World War Two, which was started by the dictators themselves. I don't know who gave it the mandate to be the World Bank. in his lifetime, Nyerere struggled to kill this worthless thing by claiming a new world economic system (New International Economic Order). Nyerere's efforts were killed by the then American President Ronald Reagan who rejected the new system. Sankara wanted the African leaders to unite so as to boycott paying the debts which the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) were forcing Africa to pay. those debts are fraudulent and the finances have been stolen from poor countries. while addressing the African Union meeting in the year 1987, Sankara said, "we are required to boycott together, so as to prevent being assassinated one by one". but if Burkina Faso boycotts alone, I will not be here during the next meeting. and that is what happened. he was cruelly killed the same year by being betrayed by his assistant, Blaisse Compaore, who was being used by the dictators. but the struggles by Nyerere and Sankara are not dead. this week, there are activists gathered in different cities in the world to pray for the death of the World Bank. they are saying that this bank did not deserve to live for 70 years, and it is about time World Bank died a normal death. if it will not cease, then at least it should retire forcefully! so, what wrong has the World Bank done to deserve a death punishment? yes, it has committed unforgivable sins. it is this bank, together with IMF that forced poor countries in the world to follow the destructive and looting policies of modern day liberation.
T229 <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> and how are you faring on ? <no-speech> I am faring on well I am faring on well . <no-speech> how are you faring on ? <no-speech> mmhm now hear how you are -- you start to speak to me in Sheng again ? <no-speech> mm I am faring on well . mmhm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I am faring on well . <no-speech> mmhm . mmhm I am safe . even me I am safe . maybe you ? <no-speech> you reached work well ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . mm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> mm . you are going to church ? <no-speech> ahh I am in Ebenezer we are at a small meeting here in Ebenezer %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> mmhm . I am saying we have a small meeting here in Ebenezer . <no-speech> I hear you . <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh when we leave here we'll go to church there . mm . <no-speech> there is that project we are doing there . there is something we are doing there . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> now where will I get you when I leave ? <no-speech> if you want just come and give him . where will I get you when I leave ? <no-speech> you -- come to the church that's where we will be . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> in church -- in church ? mm ? <no-speech> mm in church . should I come to church or where ? <no-speech> <no-speech> church come to the church yeah . okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> alright -- alright who are you with and greet them ? (()) . <no-speech> who are you with and greet them . with (()) ? <no-speech> <no-speech> -- should I push them here faster %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech>
T224 SMZ to seek for new tourism markets written by Khatib Suleiman published: 21 October 2016 the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar through the Tourism Commissioner, has set a target of receiving a total of 500,000 tourists by the year 2020, while at the same time looking for new tourism markets. Minister of Information, Tourism and Sports Rashid Ali Juma said these while speaking to HabariLeo about ministry's plans to strengthen the tourism sector as well as advertising it in new markets. while explaining, he said in the year 2014, Zanzibar managed to receive a total of 311,801 who visit various areas including the old town of Zanzibar. he mentioned that the strategies are in line with marketing the tourism sector outside the country including Zanzibar participating in various international exhibitions that take place outside the country because of marketing. Juma said, despite having a small budget for participating in tourism exhibitions, the government intends to use representatives together with embassy offices in foreign countries to do that work.
T225 we have become people of 'quick quick' we shall be taught 'to be clever' September 14, 2012. many agree that it's not good to be in a state of inferiority as a result of the smallness of a nation in a big country. it's not good that the country has everything to make it develop into a great nation but its shying and portraying itself like a country with small numbers of people when small countries that have no resources like those look like great countries. resources are in many forms and the uses can vary from country to country. creativity in the use of the resources is what differentiates among countries with few resources but are developed and countries with more resources but they don't have that development. I have been giving an example of success that Kenyans attain in sports (like the recent Olympics) while we have communities of individuals who resemble Kenyans and who live in similar environments to those of the Kenyan champions. what contributes up to we don't do good is foolishness, confusion, corruption and not worrying anything together with the one of personal benefit. I will give two or three examples concerning games, having faith that the foundation of progress is the same, either in games, to cultivate a vegetable garden or to prepare the experts of medicine. the law is all the same. I've ever been an officer in the games department in the government. when I was joining the department I was very lucky to receive various youth (the likes of Matoke, the late Masanja et cetera) who had come from Cuba with good degrees in science and sports management. I got a chance to learn a lot from them, showing content of the the curriculum that they had gone through. there is no meaning to what they had taught me and other things in the life of a person or community: a must to start with young children while in the nursery by giving them early education and nurturing them slowly while getting used to their bodies and going on to develop physically and mentally. it is a must to have acceptable teachers in the concerned stages, even if their knowledge is very basic, but there should be highly knowledgeable teachers as the classes climb and the children grow, until university, in the army and at work places and neighborhood. there is need to invest and follow every step and evaluate the results now and then. there must be enough pitches because of the daily exercises in the streets, schools, industries, army, villages et cetera. it's a must to build a society that loves sports, a society of people who love to play games and body exercises. such a society will support efforts of growing and parenting children in sports because this also has its own financial and time costs. during the interview of the KITIMOTO program, I encountered fans who came from Saigon who had come to the studio to say the same nonsense: bring a European coach, put the youth in the camps for six months, we shall beat these Ugandans and Kenyans without any problem, then we're going to play the world cup. what I was advising was that, we don't have an option but to make arrangements at different levels starting with the five-year-old children and move forward as we progress with age (U-14, U-17, U-21 and others) by putting in place various levels until they become adults, we invest tirelessly hoping that the youth we started with at the age of five will be 20 years after 15 years, and these should be the hope for going to the World Cup. the Saigon fans shouted: who should wait for 15 years, sir? you bring a white coach, place the boys in the camp, amazingly, they have forgotten that we have had white coaches (the likes of Celebic, Trautmann, Hudson et cetera) who didn't give as results such as Marijani Shaaban, Paul West Gwivaha and Joel Bendera. remembrance many times get lost from people who don't bother looking for them. another occasion was when I attended an international conference in one of the European nations accompanied by one of my superiors. I found (or I thought I had found) the chance to meet and get acquainted with Charles Mukora, chairman of the Kenya Sports Council. I asked him to allow me to send sports operators (coaches, administrator's, sports therapists et cetera) in his country to learn what Kenyans do that we do not do so we can succeed as they do because I did not see (and today still do not see) why they should succeed and we shouldn't. Mukora received my request well and told me he would be ready to receive a delegation of 100 players, and he would distribute them in several areas for a period of one month so that they can see for themselves how Kenyans seek for, prepare and develop the talents of their players. I returned to inform my boss on the agreement and I wanted to introduce him also to Mukora. the answer from my boss was: You! what will your people from Kenya offer you, aren't they poor like us? find people from Europe who are wealthy, not those Kenyans, they are like us. I give these examples as an illustration of the small capacity to think when discussing various issues, including sports. sports often captures fan's emotions who more often believe that they are sports professionals but they are only fans. when we want to develop games on fanaticism, we don't succeed because we think of highlights such as a foreign coach and a lot of money without thinking of strict planning and of long term. when President Jakaya Kikwete asked Leodegar Tenga if he (Kikwete) would bring a foreign coach and pay him, Tenga would take us to Ghana (CAN's championship) and Tenga responded 'yes'. what we witnessed is fanaticism (by believing that a foreign coach is the solution) and shame for the little (they were forced to agree on what he did not believe because of the television cameras that were gliding. the new coach came, and the leader paid, but we did not go to Ghana, and it is likely that we will be listening and watching our fellow players as they go to CAN for a long time. that is where they will meet my Saigon fans and the leaders of the country who believe that things can be done in a hurry and bear fruits when there is no sustainable strategy of advancing step by step. we have become "fast fast" people and people who are told "be clever" instead of people who are conscious about plans that aim far. that condition is emerging everywhere, in education (ward schools) agriculture (agriculture first), health (the cup of Loliondo, witchcraft) energy (Net Solution, Richmond), minerals (Barrick, Buzwagi, now gas), quick wealth (killing of albinos) and so forth. we don't take time to think and we do our things as if we aren't here for a long time coming, but we pass as we are going to another place. that's why our plans are "fast fast" and these days it has no life more than the remaining years before the coming election. we have weakened ourselves psychologically such that we've returned to the mental slavery era of believing that without a European we can't do anything meaningful. in our sensitive departments, it's seen children of the Europeans with faces showing they've not completed school well, that they call them CTA (Chief Technical Advisor) whose work is to advise our officers who worked for three decades and they've learned in schools that those kids have never dreamed they'll learn from. this is how they provide guidelines from the world bank, IMF and other seniors who we call financiers, and our administrators receive it and implement. these are the European coaches in the state operations. in this way we have embarrassed ourselves, and we are continuing to embarrass ourselves. in this manner we have given our resources to the whites because they're the ones that have all the brains and and we have carried heads to grow hair like one of the hair breeders said. through this capital we are not going anywhere because of the development and we will remain as a big country in which every person looks only to see a small nation.
T226 EAC Member of Parleament want farmers to be promoted Written by Khatib Suleiman, Zanzibar published: 13 October 2016 Leaders of the East Africa Community Countries, have been required to prioritize implementation of policies that empower small-scale farmers and breeders, in order to make a step in development and poverty eradication. this was said by a parliamentarian in the East African Community Parliament from Rwanda, Patrician Hajabakiga, when he was presenting a Committee report of that Parliament on development in the farming sector and tourism, at a sitting in East Africa Parliament which is going on at a Council of Representatives Chukwani, just outside the city of Unguja. he said the time has come now to ensure farming and livestock sector are given first priorities in the countries of that community since there is enough land to strengthen agriculture and making it become a business. he said efforts that should be done to be it is countries of the East African Community to create good policies that will enable farmers to make a big step in that sector. however, he wanted the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania to implement Malabo's resolution of satisfying itself with enough agricultural harvest since there still are citizens who are facing the problem of poor meals, despite having a bigger space of fertile land. in addition, East Africa Community countries have been urged to use the available opportunity to encourage businesspeople to invest in business and industrial farming. he said farmers will add effort in producing various products including fruits if there will be industries receiving products from agricultural produce. initially, a bill of controlling plastic products that endangers environmental pollution was presented and read for the first time by the former Minister of environment from Rwanda, parliamentarian Patricia Hajabakiga.
T227 we have seen Nash and now the topic continues . there are two issues and the first issue is that many Tanzanians don't have safety education . if we get safety education we'll know the harm that can appear even if you see me and it finds you without safety education that's a major problem . and safety doesn't start with an individual it starts with yourself . we continue and it is now time to get a solution . what should happen for them to move ? I know we have talked about this -- this program has been on air for four years (()) and we've talked about it this topic of discussion twice but still (()) still good ? let's take the army the old man gets beaten poison there breaker guards are there what can he do ? someone said F_F_U should be taken there to remove them . what I think should happen there so that citizens should not like very much to stay in the valleys because they are argumentative and difficult to understand government should use force . because we see their effects they are becoming -- how can force be used ? they should just use government force and if possible take the army there to dismantle those houses to look like there were no houses at all . because you can chase those ones and leave the houses there . the solution I think is rather the houses be demolished and then people are taken there (()) because for example like me the day before yesterday I was in the storied buildings there . people have had their houses built and each person has been given seventy iron sheets (()) bricks one hundred cements do you understand ? a section of other people immediately have decided to sell cement iron sheets others have on their own decided to sell small houses -- that benefit them . but I see the (()) government's force deciding to say directly that all houses should be built in one size until now (()) . have you understood ? now even if you said you'd leave someone there for example in the valley areas maybe he'll return to his home because he had already sold items like iron sheets bricks and also sold the cement . have you understood ? therefore what is happening there is that provided if the house he has (()) because if you have been given land there then the houses are just demolished so that it is seen that there is nothing there . because when you give someone maybe that house for example you have given him land and then while he continues living here (()) to sell means that there you haven't done anything that . we have come to the end of the second topic of discussion . I see many solutions that have been given the government should be involved awareness should be given and at the end of the day that if you're found there you can't even go to prison . but at the end of the day I think there is a major economic reason that we haven't talked about but many have small incomes . there the rooms are small small the infrastructure is poor what but people see it's better because of their incomes they live there . but let me not cause death in your life . me by my perspective Dan I see that when we do research this very saddening thing and the major effect has been death . I was looking at a picture I see bodies of small children are removed bodies of adult people bodies of old people are removed . for real it is saddening . therefore try and move if you have the ability to move . if you have the ability look for not financially if you are able to even return to the village for awhile or go live at your brother's look for another alternative of moving from the valley . we have come to the end of the program as you -- %incomplete
T220 a few areas in the country are continuing to get rainfall as it appears on this map . the satellite photos show a reduction in clouds in many areas here in the country except we can see partial clouds in the western areas of the country and some of the southern highlands areas of our country . tonight we are expecting many areas to continue being dry except a few areas surrounding Lake Victoria together with those in Kigoma which will have partial clouds together with thunderstorms . and for tomorrow we are expecting that the coastal areas of our country will be partly cloudy together with light rain in a few areas . the areas surrounding Lake Victoria together with those in Kigoma will have partial clouds and rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms in a few areas . the other areas of the country remaining are expected to be dry with episodes of sunshine . the sea wind is expected to blow at the speed of twenty kilometers in an hour from the East and at a speed of twenty kilometers in an hour from the West at the Northern Coast . the situation at the sea is that there will be small tides . on the side of Lake Victoria the wind is expected to blow from the South at a speed of ten kilometers per hour the condition of the lake is that it will have small tides . the highest level of temperatures on many areas here in the country is as it appears on this map . the highest level is expected to be thirty-four Celsius in Morogoro town . the sun will rise earlier than usual in Mtwara at forty-eight minutes past five and delay in Kigoma at forty minutes past six o'clock during morning hours . I am looking at it earlier in Tanga and Pemba at twenty-five minutes past six o'clock and delay in Kigoma at two minutes past seven in the evening . the highest level of temperatures in some of the main cities here in the African continent are as shown in this map . the highest level of temperature is expected to be forty Celsius in Miami . from the meteorological department authority we nothing more . thank you and good night .
T221 the investment environment continues to be improved in the country. September 29, 2016 Tanzania has been the 116th country out of 138 in the year 2016-2017 as a result of a good environment that attracts investment in all sectors of the world. that was said yesterday by the acting director of the research institute of REPOA, Doctor Lucas Katera, when he was announcing results of a research that was done by his institute in Tanzania in regards with the position of the country in developing a favorable investment environment in the world. "this research was done in 138 countries, but we at REPOA did on the side of Tanzania, where there were 12 criteria that were researched for all countries, whereby in Tanzania, we identified some of the criteria that the country seems to perform well while the other criteria requiring more improvements," said Doctor Katera. he mentioned some of the criteria that seem to do well to be: security of the government, public health, position on policy, management and control of foreign currency together with management of the job market. "the criteria that seem to need major improvements are the availability of loans, many taxes again at a big level, weak infrastructure, bribery together with bureaucracy in government when an investor comes with an intention of investing here in the country since there has been much bureaucracy in the government," said Doctor Katera. he said even though Tanzania has been the 116th country in the year 2016/2017, but it's a big step compared to past years whereby, in the year 2013/2014 it was in the position of 125th, in the year 2014/2015 it held the position of 121st and the year of 2015/206 it held the position of 120th, therefore it has continued to climb up, although at a small speed. he highlighted that, the government is required to improve the quality of higher education and the training that is provided in the country, after it was clearly shown to be faced with major challenges of certainty of the labor force to the investors emerging from the education provided at high levels to not seen to be having the required quality especially in the fields of science and technology subjects. "even you journalists I think you remember the year 2010 there were jobs that were advertised in the sector of natural gas here in the country, but they were not found those who satisfy the required qualifications, therefore this is a big challenge that needs a solution because when investors come to invest here in the county, they want to find workers with attributes and quality that is required," said Doctor Katera. and one of the panelists who did that research, researcher Cornel Jahari of that institute said that research was done in the province of Dar es Salaam because, 75 percent of taxes come from Dar es Salaam because of the many companies and many industries investing in the province here whereby they interviewed chief business executives, small small together with big businesspeople, in industries and the agricultural sector. the global competition institute (GCI) for the first time in the world economic forum in the year 2005 began the plan of recognizing countries with the best environment in the world of investment, through the 12 criterion provided by that institute whereby research is done in every country in the world. the top ten countries which according to that research are leading in having the best investment environments are: Switzerland, America, Netherlands, Germany, Sweden, Britain, Japan, Hong Kong together with Finland whereby in the East Africa (EAC) region, the country of Rwanda has been seen to do well, followed by Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Burundi is the last.
T222 Wednesday, July 25, 2012. the best farming for rice irrigation. proper preparation of the land is a fundamental fact in improving rice irrigation farming. if the land is not prepared well, it causes the good recommended methods to not show results at the expected levels especially in the level of production. fundamentally land preparation is supposed to take place correctly and timely in the expected procedure. the following are the seven important fundamental steps in rice farming: 1. cleaning the land. clean the land early before the season starts. collect and destroy stumps and all other garbage. remnants of crops can be used in making nutrient manure. if necessary, use fire very carefully because fire can destroy the environment, kill friendly insects, destroy soil and burn compost. 2. farming cultivation helps to reduce weeds, allows good air and water circulation, makes it easy for the roots to penetrate and mixes crop residues in the ground. when cultivating, anticipation is needed to prevent damage to the equilibrium of the land. the depth of cultivation is 10 and 15 centimeters. in order to make cultivation work easy and fast, it's good to use easy tools/machines like motorized and animal-drawn tractors. 3. to renovate/construct corded edges. after digging, ensure that corded edges have been renovated to be able to conserve water well. if it's new land, corded edges construction should be done by following the given expertise. a firm edge is important to control the water well in the field. 4. disturbing put water in the field about 3 to 5 centimeter above the ground level to complete good distortion. the hoe is used but to make work easy and fast it's good to use motorised or animal-drawn tractors. when using animal-drawn or motorised tractors, don't put water in the field more than a day before. the well shaped field enables the roots of seedling to penetrate into the soil well. 5. balancing the field. after disturbing its necessary that the field has been activated good. the farm which is rectify, allows good penetration of water. during rectification, the water source has to be 3-5 centimeter over the same ground level to make the work easy. this work uses a wood rake to pull out the residue from the upper parts going through lower parts. 6. the causes and effects for misleading of water irrigation. to get enough water, it's necessary to ensure that lack of irrigation water is reduced to a large extent and farmers irrigate at the required level without exceeding the level. sources of improper water irrigation in schemes, for example, includes: water that runs out from the main pipes, in the middle and those small ones for distributing water in the fields water that is lost in the fields during irrigation. the loss of water in the drainage, in the center and those for distributing water is caused by the type of soil that made the drainage edges, the dirt and poor construction of drainage. in a number of schemes the lack of water in the drainage is caused by leaking in the embankment of the drainage and soaking underneath was a major impact to the availability of water in the lands that are far from the edges. equally another effect was a lot of water going to areas it wasn't needed and causing water to be still for a long time. therefore farmers are advised to reduce this water shortage in the drainage through construction and cementing. the water shortage in farms during irrigation is caused by leakage in the embankment that surrounds the corded edges, leaking underneath and exceeding the amount of irrigation that is needed. this is mostly caused by poor construction of the corded edges. the construction of the corded edges and the stabilization of the corded edges has helped in reducing water shortage to a large extent and eventually increasing production and farmers' income. 7. transplanting rice in order to get a big harvest and to make rice cultivation profitable it's useful for farmers to follow these special techniques and abandon arbitrary cultivation by pouring seeds one by one in the field. furthermore, farmers who follow these principles have found great success. profits that are found from transplanting rice. the farmer can choose the best seedlings in the garden. the seedlings grows fast and healthy. a small amount of seeds are needed. the harvest becomes bigger ways of transplanting rice seeds. there are two main ways of transplanting rice seedlings, they are: transplanting through lines. transplanting without using lines (slow slow). in addition, between these two ways, the way of planting on the line is the one that is more recommended. with transplanting through the line, it needs more strength and work, this way shows that it has a lot of success compared to haphazardly planting. a farm that is planted in lines is easy to weed by hand. also it is easy for the farmer to arrange the amount of plants in the area by choosing the space that will give an abundant harvest. creation of seedlings before planting the seedlings in the farm, it is important to do the following preparations it is advised to water the seedlings first to make it easy to uproot. to prevent the seedlings from breaking, the seedlings should be uprooted by holding them at the stem. avoid uprooting many seedlings at once. seedlings are tied in small portions to simplify transportation and transplanting in the field. only the best seedlings are the chosen. attributes of quality seedlings they should be the same size. they should have short leaves that are standing, they have a lot of roots which are healthy, they are not infested by pests or diseases. how to plant seedlings hold the seedlings with three fingers the way it is shown on the picture below plant between 2 to 3 seedlings in every stem for this to be more successful, the seedlings should be planted in a depth of 2-3 centimeters.
T93 guy shocked, upon discovering that his girlfriend is already married. Eluuya, Tongaren a guy from was shocked after discovering that the lady he was planning to marry was already someone's wife. it is said that the guy had started a love affair with the lady and they had planned to get married. for the two years a period that their relationship lasted, the lady had not told the guy that she was someone's wife. by having sunk in love, the guy arranged to go to that woman's parents to ask for her hand in marriage. on the D-day he was accompanied by his friend to the lady's parents to inform them of his marriage plans. when they arrived he was shocked on being told that the lady was someone's wife and she was even living at her husband's. by Collins Ongalo
T49 those who were taken to custody by district commissioner have been released and paid the charges. written by our author, Sengerema. published 15 October 2016 three servants who were taken into custody by the district Kamishna of Sengerema, Mwanza, Emmanule Kipole including Acting Director of the district committee, Oscar Kapinga have been released from custody and acted upon the order given to them by the district commissioner. acting director together with acting district treasurer, Paul Sweya and accountant Hassan Moshi were taken into custody by the orders of the district commissioner last Wednesday after going against an order requiring them to pay Sengerema sanitation workers who had proceeded up to that committee's office. the day before yesterday at 10 o'clock in the morning, those public servants were released from police custody of Sengerema district to go pay the sanitation workers a sum of 29,000 shillings per person even though that money didn't satisfy the thirst of those cleaners. the execution of payment for those individuals was done at 4pm, shortly after the servants were released.
T440 communication towers to expand the communication market in the country. July 31, 2016 it has been explained that the starting of independent companies of phone communication towers, is able to reduce the costs of running cell phone companies in the country. before that, all cell phone companies in the country, each one was forced to build its own tower which requires a high amount of investment if it's together with generator use, security and other running costs. that was made clear yesterday by the director of sales and marketing of Helios Towers company, Michael Magambo as he spoke with journalists in Dar es Salaam city. "that's where independent towers companies come in". "they own, manage and run the towers, that can be used by many phone companies at the same time and also even television broadcasts, radio, and agents of the condition of the weather," he said. he said usage of one tower removes the burden of investment costs of infrastructure and other activities in the area of the tower. he said also, phone companies get space to direct more strength in the areas they are more able to provide voice and 'data' services to Tanzanians. many don't know our contribution in expanding phone services in Tanzania and Africa in general. "Helios Towers is a big of independent towers in the country, having built more than 1,000 telecom towers of Tigo Tanzania in the year 2010, then it built 250 other telecom towers and it expects to add other 150 by December this year," said Magambo. moreover, he said in the past two years, areas of Helios that are jointly used by phone companies is 53 percent for now and is 60 percent of new areas for the whole country while it awaits a guarantee of the government of taking the tower of Vodacom Tanzania. "we have been hearing critics claiming that a company like Helios has no competitor because they have captured a big market" this isn't true. the certainty is that Helios has been strong in the presence of competition in the market of phone services, allowing visitors to enter the market and giving service providers a chance to take services to the villages without worry. finally, it's the consumers who benefit more, by reduced phone prices and to choose the network that they want. "the truth is that we are opening the market more," added Magambo. even so, in reducing the challenges of taking services to the village areas that have no phone services, earlier the government provided a vehicle known as the Universal Communication Action Fund (UCAF) that helps to reduce costs and motivates service providers to go to the market of the villages. that step came from the Law of Availability of Communication of the year 2006 with the aim of nurturing the development socially and economically in the towns and villages through TEKNOHAMA. far from that, the company of Helios is on the run to put 27 machines under UCAF.
T454 75 to participate in bicycle racing Arusha written by Yasinta Amos, Arusha published 03 November 2016 a total of 75 cyclists from both in and outside the country are expecting to participate in the open competition of the so-called "Mountain Bike" competition that will be held from November 5 to 6 this year. some of these cyclists from Kenya, Uganda and South Africa have already begun to arrive here to participate in the tournament as well as members from the local regions, including Tanga, Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro and Manyara and the host Arusha. the coordinator of the Arusha Cycling Club (ACC), Mosses Andrew said yesterday the competition will be about 65 kilometers on the first day and the second day 52 kilometers. "to this end, preparations for the race are going well and this time we have got external participants, we have Faith the race to be competitive as some regions we have sent invitations will come and how much this response has been for this year different from last year," said Andrew. he appealed to the Government to allocate special features for the development of the game in the country from the regional level because without doing so the game is in danger of being lost with many stakeholders who love the game. the competition has been organized by ACC, which is held annually this being the second year since its launch, aimed at developing and upgrading the game's new talents. various prizes will be provided including cash money where the first winner will receive Sh 200,000, second win Sh 150,000, third 110,000, fourth 70,000 and fifth 50,000.
T542 king syn monarch song
T524 city council
T69 rabbit diseases are few and easy to deal with by Mwangi Muiruri according to Miss Lucy Ndung'u who is the assistant manager of rabbit raring farm of Sigona, rabbits are not largely infected by diseases. it's only caused by exposure to cold environment and also that of diarrhea. "the right way of avoiding costs of treatment concerning those diseases is just to ensure the environment where the rabbits are kept is not cold or dump," she says. even so, when faced with infections it is easy to treat them because 50 rabbits will cost you only 70 shillings. "that is the price of the medicine for destroying those two diseases with one shot. those medicines are for fighting and countering bacterial attacks causing those diseases," she says. she says the project of rabbit farming is among the easiest to sustain its cost because even the food is estimated to cost 15 shillings daily for 20 rabbits. "that is the price of food considering that you will be relieved of the burden of looking for fresh greens from the garden for your rabbits," she says. other normal danger on rabbits is invasion by flesh eating animals among them are dogs, squirrels, cats and even snakes. to avoid such dangers, the rabbit shelters must be strong and without spaces that may let those dangerous animals to get in and attack. the other enemies in the rabbit project are the human beings who like reaping where they did not sow and they may conspire to steal your rabbits. "solution to that is to be keen on safety of the that project where you may keep cruel dogs, fence round the rabbit shelters and if possible connect that fence to electricity and also install hidden camera the types of CCTV," she says.
T68 the farmers requested for consent to sell their produce outside the country. it is written by our writer, Morogoro published: 16 December 2016. the Channel for farmer's groups in Tanzania (MVIWATA) has requested the government to allow farmers in the country to sell their produce outside the country to enable them sell at a price that will give them profit to uplift them from poverty. while addressing the 21 meeting of MVIWATA, the chairman of that institution Veronica Sophu said the is an order which was given out by the head of the district and the region banning selling of farm produce outside the country this is not beneficial to a farmer who spends more and when he harvest he will be forced to sale his produce. "as farmers we have used our resources, our efforts on harvesting you force us to sell our produce in the country at a low price while we farmers need a lot of money to educate our children, stopping us from selling outside the country our produce we think its not right..." said Sophu. he added that the farmers have their needs that require huge money so stopping them from sealing their product outside the country is the same as giving them a ticket to continue having hardship life and continuing to swim in abject poverty. he requested the government to end the fake input that is distributing that has caused lower productivity. "how does this compost goes beneath?" the leader asked. where is the mechanism to regulate the quality? he said the farmers in Tanzania spend more money to buy fertilizers and when they use this input it does not give good result and this hinders development because of using fake fertilizer. the chairman requested the government to end the rift between the farmers and breeders by making sure there is good use of the land. he said the political leaders own large tracks of land in Morogoro region land and it is good the government to take that land and give it to the citizens so that they can use it with farming and keeping their animals. also the guardian of Mviwata- Taifa Stephen Mashishanga said that given the importance of farmers since they are ones who feed the country, therefore the government should give priority to address the problem of the farmers with immediate effect. Mashishanga also said the government must give a solution to land conflict because it destroys the peace of the country. "the government must check where made mistake so that we can correct." Regina Chonjo head of Morogoro district said that the government recognize that agriculture is the main thing that can substitute the economy of industries and the government is ready to tackle the problems and challenges that faces agriculture and also solve land dispute. he also wanted parent to give part of their land to the children so that they can own something and they gain financially. he also want the the farmers to stop shifting cultivation because it leads to destruction of the environment.
T67 residents of Dar es Salaam especially the lovers of fish are facing hard times after the delicacy became scarce following weather changes that have affected fishing activities at the Indian Ocean . insufficient fish at the Peri market in Dar es Salaam has also been caused by the mere notions about fishing that are being used by fishermen at the Indian Ocean something that makes the fishermen fail to fish at the deep waters . or during turbulent waves at the sea until daytime today Peri fish market appeared to be having limited fish and some of the fishermen and sellers are saying that fish shortage has been caused by the hiked fish prices in that market . ahh that (()) the little in this world . <no-speech> because for us to some extent -- to some extent here at our place it is a bit not good not good . first you get -- I mean until you get (()) slightly bigger you move slightly beyond to get fish . <no-speech> yeah contributions to be made to at least get something valuable . you know in everything there must be an effort to be used . <no-speech> ahh we will reach a bit far but within hey mister I %incomplete
T66 Wednesday, December 28, 2016 ways of reducing challenges of house girls. we have mentioned two items that change the system of upbringing. first is the change of gender roles defined by society. when the mother enters the labor market and goes to work as the father is used to, the challenge that comes out is how they can raise their child during working hours. second is the deterioration of family ties which weakens the help in rearing children that was normal from the next of kin. these two force modern families to look for other ways of rearing children to give the parents an opportunity to continue with work. in this article, we look at the service of ladies who are hired to help parents bring up children during working hours, commonly known as 'house girls'. we highlight ways in which we can reduce the challenges of their services. ways in which house girls are found house girls are children or young people who grew up in normal environments, mostly in the village and without much education, who are employed by parents for the purpose of helping them look after the child during working hours. alongside upbringing, these girls do house work. normally, these caretakers are found by unstructured means that depends on a familiarity system with family, relatives and friends who can link up the parents in need with the girl seeking employment. there is no official procedure that enables employers in need to be certain about her history, her skills as well as her behavior in general. however, it happens sometimes that they are found through familiar people. although this structure is considered by others as a form of human trafficking, but it has been helping parents be sure and know especially where these children come from. their work environment most of the time, these ladies are employed without express contracts and are paid a small amount of money. however, aside from cash payments, many parents give them allowances such as food, healthcare and other basic services. their daily routines are usually filled with many activities that do not match their salary. many of them are usually the first to get up and the last to sleep. their employers usually have excessive hopes. in addition to the bulk of work they do, there have been occurrences of these girls being mistreated by their employers in different ways. there are those who are treated as slaves who do not deserve respect as other human beings. others are denied their basic rights. in this environment, these girls sometimes develop inappropriate behaviors that deteriorate their relationships with their employees. the situation of misunderstanding between the employer and this child servant cause anger, pain and revenge which in most cases end up on the child who is innocent. their practical upbringing normally these girls, who in most cases are children, have no experience in upbringing. the performance of many of them depends on constant direction. however, in addition to that, still parents with low financial ability usually see them as the answer to the upbringing challenge. on the other hand, there have been occurrences of these ladies teaching children inappropriate behaviors intentionally or unintentionally. these, however, most of the time happen to revenge for the feeling of not being treated right. because the upbringing services through these ladies can be unavoidable to many parents, it is important to discuss how we can reduce the challenges of upbringing that is managed by these girls. these challenges, to a large extend, that arise from lack of sufficient familiarization in regard to the illicit relations between the employer and the girl. we recommend the following: understanding the girl's history there is need to strive to understand which family the girl comes from, how did she live with her family, her stand, beliefs, at least the basic things. for these to be possible, it is good to get her through people who know her well. when you have an opportunity to understand the girl well, you an make correct decisions earlier whether you can stay with her or not. teach her her responsibilities early many disagreements between employers and these girls sometimes is contributed by her not understanding her duties as she should. many employers have huge expectations on these ladies and thus they do not help them to know what they are supposed to do. it is good once you agree with her that she's living with your family for the purpose of looking after the child, confirm that she understands the entire procedure of work. if you do that, you reduce the chances of errors that emanate from lack of knowledge of the correct thing to do. building good relationships with the girl make the house girl be part of your family. make her feel loved as another family member. when you do this, you make her have a cheerful heart and thus have the excitement of responsibility. for example, you can introduce her to visitors as part of your family and you can consider putting her in an official family photographs that you hang on the wall. In line with that, avoid unethical relationships with these girls. when you do that, you create a detestable environment. when you are loathed, it is easy for your child to be the victim. give her services that she deserves. there is no employee who does not wish to get allowances. even you need that your boss looks at your welfare, and recognize the good work that you are doing. in the same way, and you think of giving your house girl services that attract her. create for her a good working environment. for example, you can think of creating for her a program to further her education. also, you can make sure that you recognize the work that she does every evening when you come back home. by doing this you build her desire for work. show a good example you cannot expect the house girl to live well with the children when you do not show to care for your own children. show practically how you expect the child to be cared for. the girl will learn practically. also, be an example in doing domestic work the way you expect her to do. cook, serve food on the table, wash clothes when necessary to show that you're living your expectations. when you do that, the girl will respect you. spend enough time with the child someone who spends more time with your child is the one with a greater chance of investing. because it is the girl who spends more time with your child, there is a possibility of your child being taught things you do not expect. it is good to ensure you follow up with your child's behavioral development once you come back home. strive to speak with your child to determine whether there is any inappropriate thing they have learned. when you determine if there is, establish their alternative early. in addition to taking these steps, we do not say that things will be equal. there can be challenges. nevertheless, they can reduce. follow the parents' field series in the Mtanzania newspaper every Thursday for articles such as this one. written by Christian Bwaya
T536 RT wanted the regions to elect quickly it is written by our author published: 11 October 2016 Riadha Tanzania (RT) has urged regional parties to do elections fast so that they can participate in the national elections held in December this year. the acting RT Secretary General, Ombeni Zavalla said yesterday that the regions should make their own timely elections so that they can get the legitimacy of participation in the General Elections. Zavalla said that until now its federal party has its own election reports of the Singida and Arusha regions, whoa have submitted the names of their elected leaders. he stressed that any region that would not succeed in its election before December would not have the right to send representatives to the general election meeting. in addition, Zavalla said that the RT Executive Committee meeting was expected to be held at the Filbert Bayi Sports Complex Mkuza, Kibaha in Coast on October 22, which, together with other matters, will discuss in detail the electoral date and the venue. he said the regions to achieve their elections were the success of the RT general election to get new leaders. at the same time, the National Sports Council (BMT) and RT session scheduled for today has been postponed until this month, as stated. Acting Secretary General of the BMT, Mohamed Kiganja said yesterday that the session was postponed after RT leadership requested to be done in line with what the Executive Committee would do on October 22.
T42 culture, custom, tradition and change Jun 28, 2012 in matters affecting development efforts, and sometimes to cut them short and return them back is culture, tradition, and oral tradition. culture has often been described to be a social or national example, a community's spirit and a source of general guidance to the relevant people. the complexity of the concept of culture is emerging in many aspects, and not always in the involved community can agree on what is in line with their culture and what does not fit them. often what is called a culture can be shown to be a matter of being brought in for some interest and is not skeptical in the tradition of the community. in addition, what can be accepted as a part of social tradition of tomorrow may have changed and seemingly inappropriate. it is also true that the class of administrators and capitalists greatly affect cultural attitudes by making their thoughts, their desires and their interests to be cultural pillars without any degree of reference that reflect to the traditions for a long time to the extend of gaining approval. there are things that every time I look at them, I hear, I read, I ask myself questions. for example, there was a time when this country was confronted with a campaign to ban short women's clothing. it was forbidden for a girl to wear short gowns or skirts and walk on the road. union of the youth of the ruling party had the task of moving across the city to arrest girls with short clothes and it became a reality. big conferences were held, which were addressed by senior national leaders and several directions are given about how to dress. even the tourists who came down from the plane were tied scandals so that they could cover their parts not to be seen publicly. it was a breakthrough period. the disadvantages we experienced in that ignorance were certainly a lot. one thing is that some people who wanted to visit Tanzania changed their plans and went elsewhere. in the years of rabbi I met a woman from Cape Verde in Paris. when she was told that I came from Tanzania she was happy to express gratitude and praise our country for its support in the liberation movement of her country, Cape Verde, I was feeling happy. she immediately said words that discouraged me: but, with a strong political stand in support of our movements, your people are very backward. I came with our party leader, of PAIGC (the party for the liberation of Guinea Bissau and Cape Verde). we arrive at Dar es Salaam airport, we have dropped off the plane, and immediately I am surrounded by the women wishing to dress me and let my feet not appear! I refused and got a sharp controversy until the head of the caravan ordered me to wear the piece of cloth. it bothered me very much because my legs are good, not to be hidden. I vowed not to return to Tanzania, though I was so impressed by Mwalimu's position of redemption. we came to be good friends, but he did not hesitate to make fun of me on a regular basis about the story. I am telling this story because we realized that what we were doing at that time was not very important, though we were told that we were guarding "the culture of our country." later this thing made me ask myself a lot about our focus in thoughts and actions. in one of the things that came to me at once, each time I passed through the field I was met with women who went on with their daily activities dressed in very short dresses, and most of them were letting their breasts hang without worry. I recalled that African mother's breast is not a part of sexual passion at all, but it is her baby's restaurant, and the restaurant does not need to be hidden by coverings. prohibitions on short dresses and bans on public exposure of breasts is a teaching brought by foreigners who, when they came to us, their culture forbid a woman to show her heels and breasts were, in fact, the secret of the husband. that was a culture called "Victorian" because it was experienced under the reign of the British Queen Victoria. Victoria's fashion has made the African culture a mockery and is another sign that we have been mentally and psychologically imprisoned. such scenes are too many. but, in our creativity, we went far beyond the teachings we received from Victoria's representatives. if not creativity, if you think that we banned, not only short dresses but also bell-bottoms and Pecos which were not banned during the reign of Victoria Falls because they did not occur in those days. the Pecos also has a little story. five years before the "Pecos" emerged in the city, teenagers began to wear pants that were tight from the waist downwards till you wondered how the pants are worn and stripped. it's just as if a person was sewed into trousers and on the day to take it off it will have to be cut with scissors. youths of the party went into action looking for young people dressed in "massacre" trousers and it became a difficult task. young people wearing against "our culture" were stopped on the way and were forced to show that a bottle of beer could pass through the mouth of pants, otherwise they were "shattered." this activity was terminated only when Mwalimu Nyerere rebuked it calling it foolishness. in a private conversation he said: "if you were a youth you would stop me. you want to pass one bottle. I would have made the pants to pass five bottles, and then see what you will do." after five years, it came to "Pecos", as did Mwalimu predict. if it was true that short clothes were forbidden by the teachings of Victoria agents, "Pecos" was forbidden from whose teachings? no one. what has been done is to prevent we are not used to because we are not sure and it can be dangerous to us and to our lives we are used to. anyone who read "Kusadikika" (Shaaban Robert) knows how Karama's biggest opposition to his country has been to want to embark on an unprecedented profession in the country. that is the situation described as "Conservative", a perspective that doubts any kind of change, wanting to store things as they are and how they were made. it is a situation that has severely damaged our country and will continue to hurt us until we get a daunting generation trying something new. well, there are things to be kept and every community and every country has something it likes and desires it to continue. there are traditions that promote gentleness, generosity, love, honesty and avoiding frauds, lies, contentions, cruelty, laziness, greed, spirituality and so on. of course, the prohibition of bad behavior has the importance of being kept. bad behavior need to be banned, even if they begin to be deteriorated among us. there is no meaningful culture in which you call for evil deeds. as the community increasingly acquires academic development and opens up the eyes, that's how evil behavior is increasingly beaten, frustrated and eventually abandoned. some changes of this kind are seen as they occur in front of our eyes, but we often find it difficult to recognize them. it comes from our homes, it is happening in the offices, we see them on the street, we hear them in parliament. culture is changing but we are reluctant to recognize these changes. we are reluctant to recognize it especially when we have an objection that does not accept fundamental changes.
T189 but you do know that the youth do not make someone old . <no-speech> you know you girl you will -- you've given birth to a girl -- you will age quickly me I'll just remain young young there still . <no-speech> ahh . <no-speech> I know right now I'm aging . <no-speech> (()) I am also on point . <no-speech> <no-speech> -- but don't mind . <no-speech> old age -- old age life is wealth . <no-speech> mm absolutely absolutely . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . (()) I am happy as you had told me you live in Komarock . <no-speech> now I hear you've moved you live in Buruburu . now I don't know you'll attain going to live in Lavington ? friend %incomplete mm . <no-speech> ahh . and you . soon I'll live in Lavington because the old man has become a county rep . <no-speech> <no-speech> now soon me I see I'll also move while he -- while he is the member of parliament I go to live in Karen now . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you then you I am praying for you . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> alright God willing let's pray more . let's pray God grant us favor to continue being there there . <no-speech> <no-speech> alright . <no-speech> and then I am asking you ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . how is Anne the one who we used to work with while at Harry Pharmaceutical where is she currently ? <no-speech>
T188 is it arrogance from money? by Pauline Ongaji. two weeks ago, Octopizzo emerged to take the "Come B Year" award in the champion award. this award given to those quiet at the edge of a hit release seen when the rapper goes anywhere and the steps by a musician who returns so that his hard work and contribution in that event which aroused sentiments will not be in vain especially after suggesting that award. Kagwe who was among those nominated in the category. these are attractive sentiments from the artist Nameless to defend his wife (Wahu) from arrogant fans on the Topizzo media but was it something demeaning for this rapper to refuse this award? Chief Executive Officer w Osewe, she is aware that it is important iwa for her to recognize the wanamu original smokers, who wameku now. we nominated him because for some time well, it's a musician but you can not afford the milliliters topizzo of 2012 and 201 "the unit is not hujum that makes good artists fall into a clinic for a year mmo and then go back to the tablet, then these are the references among the artists walioteu that have been included n zo, Wahu, DNAs, Wakimb Ndogo and Abbas Kubaff. last year, the artist's silence by doing a release in collaboration with a budding music queen of little light joined the artist Moto to release a hit "Ma". rapper Abbas Ku wasn't left behind when he released "Bamba". and the group of Henry Masheti al-ma Mister Filter and Morris Mash if you like Mariko walirej a 'Where are you?' bang and graph. but while the dusty alic Octopizzo is still hakijat clearly a complication inside the country's most popular bar and strange kimat phenomenon. this year's Oscar awards have already caused emotions even before the announcement of the winner, and some of those who will be announced will boycott to recognizing the skill of films that will be held this month. among those announced to be attending those awards are Smith and his wife Jada, together with the director complaining of discrimination, considering that there was no star nominated to the contest. Kisima Music Awards of the year 2004 a discussion award among the chief executive officer at that time Tedd Josiah for the best producer, the issue caused the authority to be slandered for not giving many times music in the year 2009, to receive with doubt to nominate. adi watakangine like sales kuhufuata via popularity not understood oafikia uaa. the calculator has even been appointed to the resident of the Citizen Association for his co-sponsorship if Nza's alliance is in favor of his national and international counterparts, which is the FUSE ODG - "I will not attend the reason why you despise us during the campaign." MTV Mama Awards, last year the MTV Africa Music Awards (MAMA) were overshadowed by scandals with some of the East African artists swearing not to attend that year's edition because of what they termed the discrimination of East African artists, while many nominations and awards going to musicians from Nigeria and South Africa. some of the artists who had been nominated from East Africa are Kenyans, P-Unit, STL, Elani and Wyre, Tanzanians AY, Ommy Dimpoz and Lady Jaydee, Ugandans, Chameleone and Navio. since the start of those awards in the year 2008, Nigeria has organized them twice, South Africa twice while Kenya is the only East African country to have hosted those awards when it organized them in the year 2010. likewise, even though Kenyan artists have been recognized severally in those awards, Ugandan and Tanzanian artists have been lacking enough representation.
T262 bible evf religion
T263 mm so now I was %incomplete <no-speech> mm she wants to go %incomplete <no-speech> anyway until around twelve o'clock %incomplete mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> when I leave there maybe I'll go for the sermon at around twelve o'clock because there are those I am supposed to take newspapers to %incomplete <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> of (()) which were especially there is one that talks concerning reasons that make many people see as if God doesn't love them . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> (()) one reason was saying that many say that maybe God has no name others say that He burns people and just other issues . yes . <no-speech> now I want to take there there are those who %incomplete and they Bible there in Githurai %incomplete <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> and I will have I need to to take to them at least also as I say goodbye until the following year . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> ahh alright . any news ?
T264 then later we continue as usual . I am very young you understand . but maybe for the position I have in the community when someone comes to talk about the old mornings . because maybe is the head of department in a certain area . therefore when he came the old man had left and greeted me I salute you sir ? I think even the president -- explained that thing have happened to him many times . when he is going the old man greets you as how are you old man ? now you are saluting me as sir while you're senior than me . he is telling me ahh this being old is not because of age . is of a position therefore of respect as he said an old man here . therefore old man you are differing . therefore -- you are differing as a result but maybe just explain to me the concept of gray hair and being old . that in the past was seen like one is aged then also have gray hair there are things that follows first because of his age there will is a certain wisdom that will be in him . and we say in the Bible that it's better to follow a wise youth than a foolish old man . no how do you say that my father no not true . no it is better to follow a youth who has wisdom than an old man with gray hair who is foolish meaning that -- meaning that %incomplete no . another person can become is -- is old %incomplete wait for him to he translate it's fine too he could be old man with gray hair but his acts could be unethical -- they lack examples to be emulated you do not have something to learn from him . but if he came to me who is a youth but because I have wisdom I have diplomacy . and I helped him . I want to know this as a person ages can he recognize himself that this is now true or until people on the sides see that he is ready yes ? A -- recognizes himself that is how he conducts himself he notices absolutely that now if my wife is %incomplete now he is an adult person . that is that -- you know when you have become an adult you get pains he himself exactly tells me that my grandson is here that it is yet again . that is all the time we return the number (()) of the wife cannot be of the husband . also do not worry my grandmother ? therefore I know exactly that now the time he has reached already that is . but I oppose this mister to say that he is having pain . I know this is just a situation of a person . <no-speech> yes there is no to have pain . you know yes when become aged you will start to feel back here lack of energy in the body -- becomes present but is no disease that you know of yes . mine is -- it is true is to be old but not a must that you often get ill . yes because as I am now I once was a lady . I remember the time I was a lady I had the ability when I sat down used to sit completely folding my legs down I could get up without touching down . no now you cannot get to raise me . I must crawl you have returned to your childhood state meaning I am getting old for my age . here today I realized one thing everyday you realize something . I realizes the the reason here every person is saying something that is causing me something . yes yes . I realized that when age reaches you just return you will rewind like crawling in the past and the end am returning that way again . yes yes . there you are nearing to die . I tried the hair change ohh but the color just comes out . the sign of times says this one is old . ahh . but the soul %incomplete
T265 friend hyp person farm syn cultivated land
T266 he could do something else there -- that you would prefer . <no-speech> do you know you can %incomplete mm . mm . <no-speech> you like that one %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> ahh . you need to -- you need to -- you need to ask yourself many questions before you enter there . (()) . mm . when you were talking about those I remembered a certain friend of mine . mmhm . she had a husband like that one . <no-speech> the husband decided . she told him no then they quarreled and he stabbed her with a knife . <no-speech> oops . <no-speech> I am telling you . you want to tell me they quarreled then it reached a situation they failed to agree that he stabbed her with a knife . <no-speech> <no-speech> I am telling you . she died like that and it was over like that . mm . ahh . then I said no me I don't want these . no . woe unto her -- woe unto her . <no-speech> -- (()) then I said (()) that one mm ? mm . is she your friend ? was she your friend ? <no-speech> <no-speech> she was my friend . <no-speech> okay . where was the husband going ? <no-speech> let me see the phone whom have you called ? to whom have you sent the S_M_S ? let me see he is checking . short message . ahh . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> even the short message also he wants to check -- pardon he wants to check everything in her phone . everything -- everything . <no-speech> ohh . <no-speech> I cannot live that life . <no-speech> trust me I can't live such a life . I cannot cope with such life .
T267 he who does not follow will not get written by Nicodemus Ikonko published on: 03 October 2016 today, I would like to start on our discussion with a popular saying which President John Magufuli in his slogan 'here's just work' which he has quickened significantly. "he who does not work let him not eat. " in addition to the president including that saying, I believe many keen parents are well acquainted with this saying and implement it for very obvious reasons. that if he does not get out of the house in the morning and go to work, farm or any other activities that is legal and will bring an income, he understands that his family will be in trouble if there is no food and other needs. you can avoid consumption of many things by having numerous excuses but the subject of food budget, you cannot avoid it, from you the person who is looking for food to the person to whom your responsibility is to bring the food. it should be remembered the biggest budget in our household or families it goes to provision of food first before anything else. that's why there is another saying by our forefathers that say "pray hunger for your enemy." the war on famine can't be won for reasons not to face it. even those with mental challenges, when hungry you will find them in dump sites looking for anything to put in their mouths. there is no food supplement. I want to emphasize that the big reason for the family and Government to use its resources more to train more of its youths together with chances to be innovative and enhance their talents to be able to look for daily upkeep in their life for them to be able to maintain themselves and continue with their lives. on that program that ensures everyone is working 'to eat', I remember country's founding father, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere started the education philosophy of self-dependent in school then, that time the likes of me were schooling. the intelligent ones understood him but as you know in the crocodiles habitat even the opportunists are there. there those who ridiculed but in real life they are watching. those who considered this saying are running their independent lives. sometimes I ask myself about our youths of today both female and male. he can finish his education in any level but he will just sit there at the home father, mother, uncle, in-law or even his friend without being restless and getting rid of the problems that he has by looking for activities that can bring in legal income. who are you waiting to do that work for you? think, a young man wants a job but he does not make any effort to write a letter or ask his companions where jobs are or even to read newspapers by himself that have different job advertisements every day. how will this young man succeed to get a job? another one understands that the work of casual laborers or the ones who call themselves day worker (day worker) is found in different areas of construction of houses, roads, factories and even in areas of fisheries, mentioning just a few but he does not go there, he sits at home waiting for food to eat then goes to his friends and gives them a recount of how Manchester United and Arsenal played yesterday on television. and, will you get the casual worker? please imagine you are in Dar es Salaam and you want to go to Arusha but you not buying a bus or plane ticket and neither do you have personal means of transport. even if you lock yourself in the house with your whole family to pray until blood tears drop, there is no way to get in Arusha. here, there is no miracle or trying to consult a witch doctor. buy a ticket or have your own means of transport so that you start your journey to Arusha while praying God for journey masses. here, I just want to remind our dear viewers mostly the youth that if you don't interact, don't blame witchcraft for your life but the witch who will be yourself as I said earlier, who doesn't work should not eat. wake up and start being active. man is job, otherwise the community will see you lazy and a big burden.
T268 farmers are requesting sugar industry. he was employed by John Nditim, Kilombero. it was published 16 November 2016. sugar cane farmers of Kilombero, Morogoro has requested the government to enable the starting of other sugar factories in Kilombero Valley so they can produce more. they have said for now the situation is not good because some of the farmers have left their farms because the factories takes 40 percent only of sugar from the outside farmers that was said recently while reading their report by the district Kamishna of Kilombero, James Ihunyo, during the graduation of farmers of farm classes of quality agriculture of sugar cane in Kilombero district and Kilosa, Morogoro. they said due to the current factories having farms, 60 percent of sugar cane that is used to get sugar comes from their farms and therefore the outside farmers have very little part. while talking on behalf of his fellow graduates, Farmer, kelvin Haule said the introduction of other factories is the solution to the farmers outside of that produce. even though, he said that training has helped them in improving that agriculture and taking care of the sugar cane in the farm, this situation enabled them to get 47 to 70 tones of sugar cane per hectare different and previously they used to get eight to 16 tones per hectare. the district Commissioner Ihunyo was the official guest in that graduation, he wanted the farmers of that produce to send themselves and to use better methods of agriculture of production so that they can go together with the speed of the fifth phase of the government so that Tanzania becomes a country of industries and middle economy. he said those farmers don't have a choice but to recognize the industries that are expected to be built and depend on them to get raw materials out of the agricultural sector in order to produce various types of goods. he said so that we reach those goals it is good for farmers to join groups and register them so that they get loans from bank institutions so that they can get various fertilizers different from now where they rely on manifestation of God moreover, he also congratulated the researchers of the center of research on sugar cane, Kibaha, Coast province for training the farmers of that produce, a step that enabled them to improve on production of sugar cane. the researcher from the Center of research on sugar cane, Kibaha, the unit of supplying technology, Diana Nyanda, she said that the farms and class started in the years 2010 being with five groups and 77 farmers, but every year they have been adding farms class and farmers and until year 2016 there are 33 groups and 584 farmers. so she said, together with the training, they have been brought for also quality seeds for sugar cane that perseveres drought and diseases, including NCO 376.
T51 speaker, his deputy accept corrections November 14, 2013 the speaker of the parliament of the Union Republic of Tanzania Anne Makinda, and deputy speaker Job Ndugai, this week on Monday were accused by Ludewa member parliament Deo Filikunjombe who is the vice chairperson of the permanent committee of the government's account and public organizations. Filikunjombe has reported that those parliament executive leaders have at some point been interrupting the working of that committee not only for the parliament but also for the nation generally. it is an important committee because it is supposed to do its work on behalf of all the Tanzanians though through the parliament's authority. on our side we don't want to be on the list of those who will confirm the accusation that the speaker and his vice have been interrupting the working of that committee. however, we believe that if this is how the situation is or even if the situation is not that way, it is wiser for those parliamentary great leaders to either reproach themselves or remain in the appropriate leadership behaviors, and especially when considered the famous saying that, what is spoken of is, and if it is not, it is coming. we advice those executive members of parliament at all times to recognize that parliament is a crucial tool for the purpose of citizens and so parliamentary committees are also for the purposes of the all the citizens and are not to be interfered with. why should a committee be interfered with yet its functions are done according to structures, principles and laws of the country? we recognize that these committees can be given advice so that they can carry out their responsibilities more successfully but the point to emphasize here is that that advice should not be not be given in a forceful manner. it will be remembered in September this year, almost two months ago, Tanzania was a native of the committee of public accounts from the countries ministries residents of the South African development community (SADC), a meeting that praised Tanzania in the handling of the relevant committee, inside the parliament in the country. that's why we advice the parliament leaders to fix themselves early enough when they are corrected by their voters, who are the members of parliament on behalf of all the citizens. the parliamentary committee that heads the government's accounts and its institutions and even all other organizations are better left free to perform their responsibilities, because on average the committees are taking up their responsibilities well and so the dignity and respect of the Tanzanian parliament grows.
T52 "anyone who dares to conduct a protest will never forget what will befall him," said President Magufuli. after Chadema announced holding protests Ukuta countrywide on Monday, 1 September, President Magufuli has spoken about those who want to hold protests in the country, President Magufuli has warned them to stop daring him for they will not believe what will befall them. he made the statement in this town at his first public rally in Singida Region since he was elected as the president of the United Republic of Tanzania last year. those who are promoting protests should lead, they shouldn't precede children of the poor by giving them parcels while they remain in the hotels listening to them. the people have chosen us to bring progress and not protests. therefore, I do not want anyone to delay me he said and added, "they shouldn't dare me by forcing protests on the first of September, anyone who dares whatever will befall him mmmh, he will never forget. "I'm so different so they shouldn't dare me," warned President Magufuli as he was cheered by the great crowd in attendance. President Magufuli said it is allowed for politicians to hold meetings to encourage development in their areas," if you are a member of parliament of Hai constituency, go around your constituency until you tired and not leaving your area and heading to Shinyanga to persuade people to protest." I have not restricted the activities of the elected in their areas, rather I have refused for a person to leave his region and cause chaos in another area. in addition, he urged the people to continue to support and pray for him especially during this season as he continues to deal with corruption in the country because those he is serving are ordinary citizens in the country whose living conditions are poor. tomorrow, President Magufuli is expected to complete his two-day visit to Singida Region by addressing a public meeting in Misigiri area in Iramba District.
T182 councilor sweetens the participation of Marsh in the women's league. written by Alexander Sanga, Mwanza published: 01 October 2016 the Councilor of Mbugani ward in Nyamagana district province here Mahmoud Gombegombe has helped the women's soccer team Marsh Athletics queens by giving them 200 kilograms of rice, sugar 50 kilograms and cooking oil 40 liters. speaking at a short ceremony of handing over that aid which happened at Mirongo sports grounds, Gombegombe said he will continue to cooperate with that station so as to ensure that the team does well in the women premier league which is expected to start on Tuesday. Gombegombe emphasized as like one of the stakeholders of the sport of soccer in the country fight morally and materially to ensure that team does well. furthermore, Gombegombe asked the residents of Mwanza to put efforts to help that team in order to take the crown of the women's championship. on his side, the chairman of that team, Maarufu Mohamed congratulated that councilor and said he's asking stakeholders and supporters to continue helping their team.
T185 Iyobo: the pregnancy of my lover Aunty is comfort to me and relief to my soul. skillful dancer of Bongo music star and outside the country, Nasibu Abdul "Diamond" called Moses Iyobo, has opened up that there is nothing that gives him great comfort if the pregnancy of his lover who is a film actress, Aunty Ezekiel. as he talked about his lover's pregnancy, Iyobo who in the recent past posted pictures on social media of Instagram and congratulated his lover for carrying the pregnancy said there is nothing he sees more honorable than that. "if I just think the person I love genuinely has my pregnancy I get a big comfort so much, therefore, every day I pray to God for her safe delivery and to go with her through heavy temptations," said Iyobo.
T184 the ban on khat should stand, said Namlef Isiolo Islamic leaders from the upper Eastern region have supported the ban of khat in the United Kingdom. they want the National Authority for the Campaign against Alcohol and Drug Abuse to list the product among narcotic drugs as it has bad effects on human health. those leaders of the union of NAMLEF led by the chairman of that organization Mister Hussein Guleid said that, the step by Britain was an urge to the government to protect children coming from areas where khat is grown in order to enable them to go to school. he said the use of the substance has led to family breaking apart especially among pastoral communities. he said 50 percent of people with mental disabilities in the region is due to chewing khat. with KNA
T187 when the boxer gloves become heavy! May 22nd, 2012 when boxers get into the fighting ring they put on gloves that fit their weight, and normally the boxers challenging one another must have the same weight or their weight measures need to be close. principles and different guidelines other than the weight, are the referees who are tasked with making decisions as the match continues. the referee is always in the ring. thirdly, there are judges sitting at the edge of the ring. the judges' task is to award the boxer who strikes his competitor on the permitted areas, most notably key points are awarded when a boxer hits the opponent on the face or on the forehead region. these points, if one of them is not beaten by the so-called "knock-out" strikes, are included to determine the winner. however, there are some unofficial referees. the unofficial referees have the same authority as the official referee in the ring. the unofficial referees are two: one on the red corner and the other one on the blue corner. in the red corner, we have the coach, assistant coaches and other specialists as well as one of the competing boxers. likewise, in the blue corner we have the coach, the assistant coaches and other experts as well as one of the boxers. the unofficial referees are also mandated to give decisions as the match progresses. their decision can end the match without the official referee's consent. for example, when the referee on one corner notices that the boxer has been overpowered by the opponent, he throws the towel into the ring and the referee stops the match immediately. victory goes to the opponent. an official referee can also save the boxer, but this decision is reached at when the referee sees that one of the boxers has been overpowered in the sense that he cannot stage any defense towards his opponent or the boxer is not in a position to fight against the opponent. the rules and regulations in the game of boxing make me enjoy the sport, especially when we get to know that your corner can save you from receiving a beating. founding father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, I think in 1997, when he contributed to the topic of globalization by government officials, in Dodoma, explained that when the rich countries stress on globalization without provisions to help developing countries, is looking down on the poor countries. he said doing so could be compared to Nyerere participating in a boxing match with Mike Tyson, where the obvious result will be a knock out victory in favor of Tyson! during that period of the late 1990s, Mike Tyson was the world's heavyweight boxing champion. many of his opponents in that period were easily knocked out in the first stages of the match. Mike Tyson often delivered the knock out punch to his opponents before the fourth of the 12 rounds to be played so that the match could be easily end and the judges would add up the points to declare the winner. the aim of this article was not to discuss the rules and regulations of the sport of boxing, but to use this game for the purpose of understanding the main motive. this is, in my opinion, that the game of politics is equally exciting and attractive to the audience as the game of boxing! all games, politics and boxing are enjoyable. however, in the game of politics, when one is overwhelmed and begins wavering around in the party (your camp), especially in African politics, you will not be rescued from the predicament. the main goal is to be saved by the opponents camp or party for that matter. if you stumble and get saved by your opponents towel, then it vividly shows that you joined politics for selfish reasons and you don't have the interests of the people whom you represent at heart. in a fantasy language, it's just like getting into the politics ring but the gloves you've got are not fitting you well and you are in line to receive the knock out punch. the gullible behavior is a trait seen in people who do not have the sincere ideology of their faith in promoting the development of majority of the citizens. another characteristic in African politics is the female politicians, who are many in number, but do not know how to choose a competitor to go against. it's obvious if you choose to fight with the rich, expect a knock out punch, especially if your heart was not well prepared on the ideology that you firmly believed in which propelled you into thinking that you were ready to defend the rights of the majority. we have heard, in our own case, politicians say without fear that some of our targeted investors will sign up contracts within the hotel and abroad. but before the sun has set, the same politicians say: "Tanzanians, be ready to buy stocks from of the countries of the investors who were accused of condemning our leaders to make hotel deals! we expect 80 percent of Tanzanians to receive help in fighting poverty among those living in rural areas with great distress - their health is poor, majority of their children do not have desks thus they learn while sited on the floor and their hand hoe farming does not give them ability to eat and spare. today we are sending an alarm and announcing: my brothers, let us invest in buying shares from the mining companies in the country! do they really know what company shares are? or are we just talking to the rich who live in the city, especially the city of Dar es Salaam? we could help these rural Tanzanians by encouraging them that after the harvest season, percentage of the sales revenue should be directed towards getting into a contract with rural shops so as to expand the capital market in the rural areas. law enforcement agencies can help them write such contracts for a little fee. we are not speaking of corporate agreements, the meaning is different, and we do not target the SACCOS, but the contract allows a person to be given a percentage of shares as part of his capital. they might not be many people. but with a contract that is well clear and the sales records are well documented, they will clearly know how much the profit is and now the sharing will be done based on each person's capital. people like this can slowly grow in stature and eventually afford to buy work machines such as tractors which will open up employment to others. for that reason, the rural residents are in turn amassing their wealth slowly and steadily. but motivating such citizens to buy shares sold in dollars from foreign owned companies, isn't politics that brings development of many voters, rather it's politics of self-seeking for fame on television, newspapers, and radio. if there are such politicians, they should be called leather sandals because they are here nor there. (flip - flop). the term staggering in politics is widely used in the election campaigns in those countries that practice the type of politics where they compete on ideologies, policies and planning on how to manage key issues. for example, in 2001, I saw on CNN television, a report of the debate by aspiring politicians for the Prime Minister's seat in Australia. in the debate, the the Liberal Party's candidate, John Howard, spent much time accusing his opponent, saying that Kim Beasley party was unfit to lead the country because he is known to flip-flop. the issue that was used by Mister Howard to accuse his opponent of being a flip-flop like a sandal concerned how to deal with refugees. while continuing with the campaign, a ship was seized while in the high seas with approximately 200 refugees from the country of Afghanistan. before the ship was seized, it experienced problems and the lives of people were put at a risk. those problems are what caused the ship's captains to ask for assistance, that caused their arrest. without that problem, they wanted to sneak in silently. Mister Howard stood firm on the point that even though the ship encountered difficulties, they would not be allowed to step into the country because they were entering into the country illegally. so, he wanted them to be sent back to their country. his opponent said that because they experienced problems, for humanity's sake be allowed to enter Australia and taken to the refugees camps and each one of them to be individually investigated rather than judging them as a group. Mister Howard got a chance to use his opponent's response as being too lenient and a flip-flop, because the law of the country states that illegal refugees should not be allowed to enter. in the election, Mister Howard got a big victory in what we the Tanzanians call a landslide victory. he said he would win, but the victory over the nation has come from many of his countrymen to see him with a solid stand for managing basic issues. for our colleagues, a sophisticated politician has no chance. the issue that the politicians of our poorest countries have is, in some cases, the same as the gluttony of the collision, is a disappointing answer. I do not remember exactly what year exactly, but between 2001 and 2003, a politician said some of the contents of the election campaign that gave them the victory would not be implemented. to our colleagues where the slightest slip of the tongue may cost them victory, the feedback that some of the issues you advocated for during campaigns cannot be implemented is same as saying you have given yourselves slime chances of winning in the next election or you may be restrained until you resign even before the election. our colleagues' answers are constructive. if there was any issue in the case with the candidate that at the time it was not implemented, the response to the people is to say that the issue is now being deferred and we will initiate or address it after three years. after three years, it is probable that the elections would have been done and you may have won or failed, and thus find time to again reflect on an alternative policy to what you said cannot be implemented. for example, I have read online that the current Australian government has entered into power and one of its main policies was to handle, getting into power, to reduce the impact of rising gas emissions from industrial. they promised that even if other developed countries have failed to reduce global climate change problems, especially in the warming of industrialized countries by providing high-speed air conditioning, they (Australia) will give industries to meet standards. and Australia will be a model and other developed countries in this regard. however, the government, being polluted, has said that the policy will not be implemented at the moment unless it is postponed until three years. before concluding this article, let's look at the blueprint saying you do not wear the shoe you do not know what it's like. if you are not a politician why are you discussing politics? many Tanzanian politicians have a very good answer to such a question. their answer is: leave politics to us, or if you want, then join the arena we contest! it is true that African politics do not know what they are like, how to distinguish between the poor and the poor in the rural areas against the few rich and foreign investors. and let's finish this article by looking at what we learned. the main issue is to keep off politics for personal goals, especially for the purposes of self-enrichment. this is what we have compared to wearing gloves that fit the weight of your ideology and what you want majority of the citizens to devote and contribute towards their development and the country at large. secondly, we have learned that when we become politicians we shouldn't be flip-flops like leather sandals. thirdly, we as the politicians we should not respond to questions for the sake of it or sentiments that reduce the excitement of the people. responsibilities like this policy or this issue will not be implemented in the future. reader, reflect!
T186 favor syn boon
T349 <no-speech> those affected by addictive drugs in Zanzibar islands has asked the government to continue insisting on the fight against those drugs and produce cruel punishment to all those who are involved with the activities of selling and using those drugs to protect the workforce of the nation . our reporter Haji Bugege has prepared the following report . <no-speech> <no-speech> many youths both male and female here in Zanzibar islands have been affected by use of addictive drugs a situation that caused the workforce (()) especially the youth affected by those uses . speaking with the station several youths who stopped using of those drugs cursed strongly the activities of the usage of those drugs and said they wasted a lot of time in those evils . as others are appreciating the action of opening of homes for taking care of those affected by those addictive drugs . <no-speech> we have had problems in using those addictive drugs and have caused me to even seem like I don't have a value in the society I was unable to study at school and joined these evil behaviors (()) and I found my life lacking direction . <no-speech> first I don't to know just to ruined myself in the drug addiction but I thank God for making possible a place like this because I managed to get a little deliverance and I understand to talk about me now I have returned into humanity . women who are many who are using drugs go to make love with different men who sees that as long as them they get the drugs but I has a time that now I know my worth . <no-speech> I cannot follow a man -- to use me for money because for now I do not smoke and then am happy that similarly I don't use any intoxicant . I have lost a job and considering that I have worked with United Nations -- the woman that I used to expect that would be my wife I have lost her because of -- usage of drugs . on their side the teachers of these affected have not much to explain but this of lack of support has been a problem to stop them from making more steps . more the challenge we have is we rely on ourselves us who started those houses . therefore us we ask for assistance from the citizens from whoever is able because even us it is more important even just food be brought to us . on every month a person to be helping us with food then I think we will be able -- to manage . <no-speech> <no-speech>
T348 one of the problems which we have in this country is that some of our executives are not faithful they are thieves and the moment you realize they are thieves they should leave so that the respect of M_S_P and its stakeholders is retained and the citizens get drugs . in our country instead of the government being blamed for people's laziness . the head insisted on the importance of sacking all those who will be found with the offense of stealing after being transferred and to be careful working with all their strength the few duty bearers who are smearing them with mud . then they should just be fired yes he should removed them immediately as it's of no use for a big organization like this one to be smeared with mud . <no-speech> because of a few duty bearers who are not faithful . (()) neighborhood T_B_C Morogoro . <no-speech> a child Najet Mohammed who is two years of age needs support for the purpose of undergoing an operation that will enable the anal passage to be found as our writer Proxeda Mtani explains once again in his story from Morogoro . <no-speech> Mohamedi was born in July the year two thousand and ten . in Mkuyuni village in Morogoro villages with a deformity of not having the anal passage part . the mother to the child Ziada Mohammed explains in details the problem and the treatment done . I am a resident of Mkuyuni and my child's problem is that he has no anal passage . Muhimbili did it and he's letting out from the side . and until now if I go to Mwimbini I'm just turned away . I'm given a return date . every time I go to Mwimbini I'm given a new return date . so now it's to my ability to -- I have come here in Tanzania to help my son . <no-speech> however Ziada is still requesting good Samaritans to help her contribute money for her child to undergo operation . which will help him in the finding of a normal anal passage . I am in a poor state and I am therefore asking them to help my child undergo the operation . to go as he usually does . <no-speech> I wanted support from my fellow Tanzanians . I'm in a poor state . zero seven one seven seventy and six sixty and nine at the end of fifty two . repeat it again . zero seven one seven seventy and six sixty and nine at the end of fifty two . Kapseda village T_B_C Morogoro .
T347 Mange Kimambi 'I am contesting for the parliamentary seat of Kinondoni state on a CCM ticket not Special seats' Kinondoni without drugs is possible I am contesting for parliamentary seat in Kinondoni state on a CCM ticket. yes the province is not for Special seats, why Kinondoni, what will I do in Kinondoni? immerse in my blog for all the answers. I am getting a lot of turbulence but let us remember, there is nothing good that comes easily. Kinondoni without drugs is possible. when you are like a friend, fan or a patriot I request you guarantee me by your contribution of status and property through M-Pesa 0764 484700 it has been registered by the name: Mange Kimambi but if you are out of the country you can use www.gofundme.com/ycwfdc. also you can use Pay Pal: mybongolicious@gmail.com. also you can use Western Union or money Gram to go to Mange John Kimambi, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. my bank account of CRDB is on my blog. please read my profile on my blog and you understand why I have decided to contest for the State of Kinondoni. you will understand me more. www.u-turn.co.tz.
T346 welcome listener in this presentation of how do I do ? the health and social decisions of the youth . from the program of Swahili of American Voice of America here in Washington D_C . who is welcoming you in the today's broadcast it is me Esther Githui Ewart . these announcements which are brought to you as the part of V_O_A the African health network are also heard through our associates R_F_A of Mwanza Mlimani Radio Dar es Salaam together with A_B_M ninety one point two Dodoma Tanzania . Bomba F_M one O four point zero Frozen Breeze F_M Breeze Best F_M for Christmas . as usual we have collected for you hot news of health youth discussions with a doctor acting together with reports concerning and touching on you youth welcome . <no-speech> first of all join me Mkamiti Kibayasi for health reports . the World Health Organization W_H_O has said in its weekly report that in the period inside coming four years six nations in the African continent in the area which are malaria is widespread will be able to be free of that disease . technical strategies in the world on malaria the year thousand and sixteen up to two thousand and thirty that was approved by W_H_O last year hope to see the ending of malaria infection in at least in ten countries when it gets to the year two thousand and twenty . but right now world health organization W_H_O is estimating that twenty one countries will accomplish that objective including six nations in the African continent . W_H_O is saying in a report that was accompanied by its report that since the year two thousand the rate of malaria has reduced by sixty percent in the world . in the area of Africa in that report the number of deaths caused by malaria have reduced by sixty six percent among groups of people of all ages and by seventy-one percent among the children below the age of five years . six nations in the African continent that were mentioned will be able to stop malaria by the year two thousand and twenty is Comoros South Africa Swaziland Botswana Algeria and Cape Verde . W_H_O has said that the malaria infections are reducing thanks to the you use of medicated nets together with frequent testing even though these methods have not been working well as the time goes . <no-speech> the group warned that approximately half of the world's population the size of three point two billion are at the danger of being faced by malaria . is just last year that two hundred fourteen million new cases of malaria were reported in the ninety five countries . more than four hundred thousand people died from that disease . this report is saying that nine deaths out of ten are caused by malaria last year they were there in the countries in the southern Sahara desert in the African continent . in moving forward W_H_O has said new technologies will be needed to be promoted in order to face that disease and the confrontation are needed and they need political good will and finance from the government . in other reports close to one hundred and forty four thousand in Namibia are on A_R_V drugs treatment according to the recent census that was published by the ministry of health and community services in that country . <no-speech> these broadcasts are brought to you courtesy of U_S_A_I_D Tanzania and also as the part of African health network . and now we are bringing to you the program of discussion . <misc> <misc> <misc> <no-speech> in this discussion today you have me Rahabu Freddy and the ladies are discussing the topic there are what effects when a lady puts on clothes that reveals her shape . let's start by listening to you . by name am called Lidya Joseph . one of the effects of putting on clothes that rare not of respect by ladies is to humiliate us as us . because those clothes you are putting on are showing the features inside which are not supposed to be seen at that time . and also they cause you to be raped by estate youths as a result of coveting those inside features which are visible because of putting on those clothes and other effect can occur is to meet youths and as a result of those clothes you have worn they can tear them with razor blade . by name am called Anne Warite Stephen . another thing that I can add there is that we are eroding our traditions and losing traditional clothes and we are coping foreign traditions . another thing that I can say is it contributes to disagreements among families . there are other people who are putting on those clothes but if family has not allowed them . you find she comes from home %incomplete
T345 20 December 2012 health officer locked in the warehouse Patrick Mabula, Kahama. the health officer for Kahama district Moster Charles Mwaipopo the day before yesterday found himself in a difficult situation after he was locked in a warehouse for more than five hours when he was doing an inspection. Mister Mwaipopo was locked in a warehouse belonging to businessman Mister Lucas Kishimbe who admitted locking in the health officer when he had gone to inspect the goods that are in the warehouse. the businessman Mister Kishimbe said he decided to lock the officer inside after he threatened to set on fire the goods that are in the warehouse if he did not give anything claiming they did not have the quality assurance from the factories where he buys them. Mister Kishimbe said the officer arrived at his warehouse and identified himself as coming to do an inspection and he opened for him including the inner doors, but while in there he asked to be given money and that is when he refused and he threatened to set the goods in there on fire. he said that after being threatened is when he decided to lock him inside the warehouse and sought help from his superior district health officer Mister Athanas Ng'oboko who denied sending him to do that work and making threats so that he is given something. the district health officer Mister Ng'oboko when asked admitted the locking in of the officer and denied that he was not an employee in the district authority but is an employee of the town authority and that he did not send him to carry out that work which he says he probably had a plan of getting money for himself from the businessman who locked him the warehouse. and health officer for Kahama town authority Mister Marten Masele when asked admitted the occurrence of the incidence but denied that Mister Mwaipopo is not under that authority and neither did he send him to carry out inspections in businessmen's warehouses in Kahama town. on his part, officer Mwaipopo admitted being locked inside Mister Kishimbe's warehouse and explained that he went there following the directive of Food and Drugs Authority "TFDA" from Mwanza City that the businessman has a habit of importing goods that do not have quality standards, something that he refused to be inspected. Mister Mwaipopo said that while locked in the warehouse he made a call to his fellow officers who came arrived with police officers and that is when they saved him and when he was released by the businessman. however, reliable and long standing reports from some of the citizens and health officers in the Kahama district health authority and from Kahama town authority say a big percentage of businessmen in the district have adopted a dirty game for long as they usually take goods in that state something that endangers the health of the consumers.
T344 drugs hyp illicit substances
T343 this vaginal discharge is a disease discharge is a Swahili vocabulary word that means the dirt that comes out of the vagina which isn't normal. today, I'll answer two questions important to women. one of our readers asked thus, I am a 22 year old lady, I live in Mwanza, I have a stomach ache problem and the discharge of white thick fluid except it's odorless. please doctor help me what's the problem, what drug do I use in order to stop it? answer: I am very sorry, normally the vagina discharges watery whitish fluid which usually is light and white and has no annoying odor, burning/irritating or accompanied by rashes. its level, together with its appearance, can change in a day due to age. from your explanations, it means that discharge isn't normal since it's heavy. that's a sign of vaginal fungus, it can have the appearance like that of fermented milk. this problem can be treated with anti-fungal drugs that are inserted into the vagina. I advise, go to a health center near you for diagnostic tests or the risks of that problem to confirm the problem. question: hello doctor, sorry for the responsibilities. my wife has been disturbed by a problem of V. discharge for a long time, which normally repeats itself now and again. she has been given an injection of power safe and Fluconazole tablets whenever this problem comes out, but the problem still repeats itself again. I am asking for your help please, what medicine can my wife use or what is the way in order to get cured of this problem? answer: v. discharge means the coming out of dirt from the vagina that isn't normal. there are many reasons that can cause the discharge, including foreign objects in the vagina like fragments of sanitary pads or cotton, bacterial infection, parasite, fungus or viruses. bacterial infection now and again is gonorrhea germs, chlamydia, mycoplasma, and parasite usually is trichomonas vaginalis and fungus is candida albicans and virus is herpes simplex. discharge that is a result of bacterial infection usually has an odor like the smell of fish that is felt after sexual intercourse and can have a gray, green, yellow color or mixed with blood. if it's a fungal infection, it's like I explained in the first question, parasitical infection, the discharge is usually much and has a bad smell, of a greenish yellowish color and is foamy. likewise, the bacterial infection can be accompanied by discharge of pus, rashes or wounds, irritation. from the way you asked and your explanations, it is possible you have a mixture of infections that is, chronic vaginal fungus and bacterial infection or parasite. I advise you to go to district health centers or local hospitals, since there are special departments for these diseases where appropriate medical guidelines and impurities can be taken for testing and degradation. of normal. today I will answer two questions.
T41 bribery brings confusion to parliament Aug 02, 2012 after the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Profesa Sospeter Muhongo and his secretary general, Eliakim Maswi, were saved from being uprooted by a network of the corrupt through members of parliament who are claimed to have been given bribes to fulfill that intention, reports explain that the next coming turn is against the Minister of foreign affairs and international relations, Bernard Membe. Membe is expected to present his speech in parliament next week, and it is explained that his stand against suspects of the radar purchasing scandal has made him be eagerly awaited by some of the parliamentarians who have also been accused of being given money by corrupt people to press for the dismissal of that minister or even during the debate of his Ministry. those preparations against Minister Membe are coming at a time when, several sources of news for this newspaper have quoted President Jakaya Kikwete when telling Prime Minister, Mizengo Pinda, that "I am tired of swearing in new ministers," with a meaning that he does not want to lose any minister at the moment. Kikwete is quoted to issue that statement after the heat of corrupt cartels through parliamentarians tried to remove the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter and his Secretary Maswi, who are believed to have controlled the siphon pipes of corrupt cartels that were put at Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO). patriotism struggle vs corruption in the movement of rescuing the ship and controlling the power of corrupt cartels in removal of leaders in the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, some of the ministers, parliamentarians and other special teams that included leaders from CCM headquarters, participated as some of the parliamentarians from the opposition supported those efforts in the Faith of fighting for the interest of the nation. the reports that reached us explain that the style that was being used was to pass through every time they were passing agents of corruption who, they were seeing members one by one by taking note of a list they had prepared for themselves. in those efforts, the Minister of Work and Employment, Gaudensia Kabaka, is claimed to have been forced to use pilgrimage transportation at night to pass some of the parliamentarians in order to explain to them the reality of the situation of why new leaders of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals are being fought. apart from Minister Kabaka, Assistant Minister for Energy and Minerals, Stephen Masele, who is a member of parliament for Shinyanga, has also had a special job of passing whenever he was passing one member of parliament from one of the counties in the region of Arusha (CCM). it is claimed that that Member of Parliament was spreading money to buy members of parliament to conduct attacks against the leadership of the Ministry, the money that he got from some of the companies had conducted some business with TANESCO in a corrupt manner. the job was only one, when they are coming from certain hidden after sharing money, we were going to tell the truth and by protecting the interest of the country instead of the interest of a gang of businesspeople who are chewing the country," stated our news source. the parliament member for Mwibara, Alphaxard Kangi, is also required to walk for several kilometers without using any behicle, coming from one hotel to the other in order to put things right by revealing the truth to those who had been given bribes. the job was one of the easiest. it was the job of telling the truth for the interest of the country. "we were saying the money for bribes had come from who, for what reason and for whose interest and for what objectives especially against the country," stated our news source. Prime Minister and President Kikwete Reports that reached us are stating that a few days before the heat on corrupt cartels Rose and went to almost getting successful, President Kikwete is said to have called the Prime Minister and told him that he is tired of swearing in new ministers. that statement was like an order to the Prime Minister, who in his head had the memories of the pressure from members of parliament that caused the new restructuring of the cabinet. after that, Pinda summoned a session for CCM members of parliament who are in the committee of Parliament for Energy and Minerals. others who were in that session are, along with the Speaker of Parliament, Anne Makinda, Minister Professor Muhongo and the Permanent Secretary, Maswi. the session lasted for about six hours. the situation was volatile and the Prime Minister criticized some members of parliament. he mentioned the names of those benefitting from TANESCO, who were advocating for leaders who had been suspended from work at TANESCO to be returned. "two Members of Parliament with special seats exchanged insulting words there. one told a colleague that he is defending corruption in TANESCO because he is doing business with that company, he too then stood up and answered her that better him who does business with TANESCO rather than his colleague who does the business of selling her body. Maswi also reminded one of the members of parliament how he once went to ask him for a bribe of 50 million shillings so that he could go and share with his colleagues. when he told him he did not have that amount of money, he reduced that stake to 20 million shillings. "evidence of that has been preserved and will be presented to the concerned section," explains our source of information. Malecela is called to rescue the ship, the former Prime Minister, John Malecela, was forced to serve as well. Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda is mentioned to ask him to explain to him the real situation of one member of parliament from Arusha so that he can stop to continue being an agent of corrupt cartels who were benefiting from TANESCO. elder Malecela sat with... member of parliament (the name is mentioned) he explained to him everything but the guy was stubborn. the elder told him "you are going to finish yourself politically days aren't many," but he continued with his stand, so the elder left him and now his condition politically is bad. he is part of the parliamentarians who are being accused of corruption," explains our source of information. the secret of parliamentarians requesting for bribes, secrets of some members of parliament and especially in asking and receiving bribes have continued being displayed by some of them, explaining to Raia Mwema that, most of those who took loans of up to 200 million shillings to start a business, those businesses have died and their salaries now service those loans and for that, they do not have any other source of income. due to that situation, members of parliament have been crying for increment in salaries and allowances, and through their committees, some are claiming to put pressure to be given seminars by some of the public corporations and institutions. some of the parliamentarians who spoke with this newspaper under a condition of not being mentioned in the Newspaper, have said that besides the parliamentarians being in that hard situation, there is a government weakness to an extent that parliamentarians are allowed to interfere with the government action activities. as a result of government as a result of the dollar axis seems overwhelmed by Parliament and thus being too submissive to the parliament, (surrender to Parliament), the parliament has found its position of managing and advising the government being used badly by entering into small issues of administration and performance on a daily basis. "they have stopped managing the government on the issues of policies, now they are becoming agents of business people who missed out on tenders or business people whose licenses are being canceled," explains one of the parliamentarians from the lake region. in adding strength to that argument, another member of parliament says "those who are complaining of being oppressed or in whichever way are supposed to go to court and not to parliamentarians, and again by giving them money". "most business people who are affected by the decisions of government officials, nowadays they don't go again to court to oppose oppression they think has been done to them, they run to members of parliament in parliament". another member of parliament from the Southern Highlands mentions that another reason for members of parliament to ask for bribes is the system of electing parliamentarians, which is of a high cost and after the election, citizens who were helping in the campaigns of parliamentarians have been turning members of parliament as sources of their income. he says members of parliament also take loans to start businesses in order to increase their income, but due to lack of business expertise, those businesses have died and, at the same time, a large section of their salaries is deducted to compensate for the loan. the Committee on Natural Resources to be dismantled after calling for the Public Accounts Committee led by Kabwe Zitto, Committee of Local Government led by Augustine Mrema and Central Government of John Cheyo to be burned, such as that of Energy and Minerals due to various suspicions of corruption, a call has now been released to Speaker Makinda to dissolve other parliamentary committees. those committees include the committee of land, natural resources and environment, the economic and finance committee and the committee of defence, security, and foreign affairs. the committees of defence and that of economy and finance, are under pressure from some parliamentarians to be dissolved because the chairpersons of those committees already their integrity is being doubted before the citizens. those committees are led by Member of Parliament for Monduli, Edward Lowassa and that of Economic is led by Andrew Chenge. Lowassa resigned after being pressurized by the Ninth Parliament as he was connected with a scandal of a complex power regeneration Company of Richmond. Chenge is regarded as a leader who ensured the controversial purchase radar whose process shook the British parliament. but when the situation is like that for Lowassa and Chenge, the committee of the lands, which is led by member of parliament for Kahama, James Lembeli, is accused to have been compromised by a group of business people, with claims that at different times the group has paid the members of the committee for the chance to debate the government's decision of preventing the permits for transportation of animals outside the country. that committee of Lembeli was compromised by those business people at a sitting that took place on Sunday (November 6, 2011), a day that isn't a parliamentary working day. that seminar took place at the Chambers of Pius Msekwa, in the parliament within Dodoma City. that committee also is claimed to have once been paid for a seminar hall and allowances for its members by business people of illegal hunting, a seminar that was done at the Saint Gaspar hall, in Dodoma, April this year.
T341 <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> hello so he will see if Bonnie is drunk because Bonnie is used to slang he's asking mm . hello tell me . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> Muchiri can you hear me ? tell me where are you ? <no-speech> <no-speech> tell me I can hear you mm ? you can hear me mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> you can hear me can't you ? mm I can hear you now I can hear you . <no-speech> mm . okay then let it be proper Swahili then . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm tell me I can hear you now . <no-speech> how are these matters ? <no-speech> pardon ? how are things ? <no-speech> <no-speech> it's not bad you're getting disconnected -- you're getting disconnected I can't hear -- completely well . it keeps disconnecting but how was your day ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> I am okay mm . pardon ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I am well tell me -- I am well tell me . you're fine ? <no-speech> <no-speech> according to the elections do you feel like we will win the presidency ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> who ? there's a technical problem I can't hear you well -- there's a technical problem on your side I can't hear you well . according to the elections do you think we will win the presidency ? <no-speech> <no-speech> and my colleagues being hit can't you hear me ? I'm saying %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> (()) %incomplete <no-speech> hello . I can hear you that you have technical problems on your side . <no-speech> ohh so can't you hear me well ? <no-speech> (()) you're shaking as you speak . <no-speech> <no-speech> maybe it's a technical problem the network is jumbled . hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> is it the phone with a problem or you have a technical problem or your phone is spoiled can't you sell it ? <no-speech> Kim my friend I can hear you well . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> Salsa speak up I can hear you now . can you hear me ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I can hear you now . <no-speech> okay how was your day ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm I can hear you now . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> you had a good day ? <no-speech> <no-speech> are you okay mm ? I have had a good day . <no-speech> how is your morning ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm I am okay . <no-speech> you have eaten I think lunch and snack . it's not bad maybe yours . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what about now ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> fish . <no-speech> fish . and then what time are you going for exercise tomorrow ? <no-speech> <no-speech> who ? Fadhili ? <no-speech> mm and then what time will you go for exercise ? at around two o'clock ? mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> what is that ? <no-speech> and let me ask you ? <no-speech> hello . mmhm ? <no-speech> I can't hear you clearly I'm serious . I am asking you ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> and then -- then what time will you go for the exercise ? hello . <no-speech> mm ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> what is that ? <no-speech> what time will you go for the exercise ? what is that ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> approximately ? <no-speech> what ? (()) eight o'clock when you wake up at eight o'clock then what time will you go ? to work ? <no-speech> what are you saying ? mm . I am asking what time will you go to work ? <no-speech> <no-speech> on fourth ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> what is that ? <no-speech> can I ask you ? <no-speech> seven o'clock . <no-speech> are you going to work at seven o'clock ? <no-speech> mm . and then what time will you leave ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> what ? what time did you say tomorrow ? tomorrow ? <no-speech> at around two o'clock . two o'clock (()) from two o'clock until four o'clock ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what are you asking me ? <no-speech> what time is it now ? what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? mmhm . <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> surely Bonnie you know I can't hear you well -- I can't hear you well for sure . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm I also can't hear you well . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> then it seems there's a technical problem . I'm the one who can't hear you it's like you're breaking off . <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> I can't hear you well . why don't you -- you -- go to a place with good network ? <no-speech> <no-speech> network ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm telling you here -- I'm telling you -- I'm telling you the machine isn't working %incomplete the network isn't good . <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm even outside -- I'm even outside . do this mm -- do this mm %incomplete <no-speech> <foreign> . <no-speech>
T340 the government wants the business people at Dagaa border to improve the environment of their businesses Rashid Mkwinda the government wants the business people of meat and fish products in the border to improve the environment of their businesses so that it can be attractive to internal and neighboring countries buyers. while speaking with the business people at the Dagaa border of Tanzania and Zambia in a small city of Tunduma, the Minister of Livestock and Fishery, Doctor Titus Kamani, said in order for these business people to benefit more they should improve the environment of their businesses. he said, the buyers from different areas of the neighboring countries are checking more on the quality of the environment that is being operated in these businesses and the fish products needs hygiene because of the environment and the kind of business itself. "you know fish and seafood needs great care and a clean environment, when people are face to face with an environment that is not clean, they are disgusted and discouraged to buy your products" said Doctor Kamani. on his side, the head of the district of Momba, Abihudi Saideya, said that the residents of Momba district get fish through Lake Rukwa which is on the side of the valley of that district. he said, however, that for a period of six months the lake was closed because of the damage to the environment which was done by the citizens and thus caused the lake to dry up and the production of fish was poor. "we closed Lake Rukwa with the cooperation of the district who are the main users of this lake, we opened it after 6 months but still the production is low" said Saideya. and the officer of fisheries for Momba district, Ali Libenanga, said that for the six month period after the opening of that lake, a total of 108 million has been collected from the taxes of fisheries and even though the fish that are being produced in that lake are stagnate and not growing at right level. Doctor Kamani did his tour by visiting the business people of Dagaa who are on the border of Tunduma to check the environment of those businesses that are in the borders areas whereby he also met with Executive Councils of the city of Tunduma.
T167 this Maria John recently was successful to win the crown of beauty of Miss Pwani two thousand and twelve after defeating her nine fellows . there is the competition of Redds miss Pwani . the competition that took place in the hall here in Ikunda . located in Kbaha town . the report of Mbaleta Msembele of Kibaha is read by Siri Hambe . former Kibaha town member of parliament Sylvestry Coca . who awarded gifts to the winners challenged the winners to focus on values and to engage themselves in social activities . it was an example of good conduct of behavior in their surrounding community . for these programs are (()) that me as your member of parliament am shoulder to shoulder with (()) in the name of (()) of service -- of service and community . but (()) you have said that the road to get a beautiful lady who will win we will have a vehicle for visiting the orphans as well as (()) the competition rates Miss Pwani was entertained by music from the Mashujaa band from Dar es Salaam city . and made the music fans to unite with the invited guests to dance .
T166 shoulder to shoulder
T165 leaders in the council of Mwanza, Ilemela exchange muscles March 27, 2013 while the Mwanza city council and Ilemela municipal were in the tug-of-war of who has the right to own the construction project of the modern Mwanza market (Mwanza Commercial Complex), which begun before the councils were divided, right now the conflict is said to have been influenced more by personal interest than the public interest. the project of building that source of livelihood is run in partnership between the city council before the city was divided on one side and the pension funds for civil servants (LAPF). the project is being put up in Ghana region in Nyamanoro division within the borders of Ilemela municipal. since the Mwanza city municipal was divided to give birth to the city council and the Ilemela municipal council, there has been tug-of-war that involves development projects, including Mwaloni Kirumba international market and building of the new town Muhonze, all in the borders of Ilemela municipal council, for Mwanza city council wanting to own and govern it. the conflict on who is supposed to own the Mwanza Commercial Complex came up again at the end of last week in the meeting of the advisory committee of Mwanza province (RCC), which among other things, a report about that project was supposed to be given. moreover, a representative of the director of Mwanza city council, Francis Mkabenga, when he wanted to read the report in that meeting he met opposition from the mayor of Ilemela municipal council, Henry Matata, who gave information to the head of province, Evarist Ndikillo, who was the chairman of that meeting saying that Mwanza city council is not allowed to head that project because it does not have legal rights. "honorable chairman, these ones (Mwanza city council) are not allowed to give this information because they don't have jurisdiction to head that project and you are not supposed to support breaking of the law, therefore I request that the information should not be given... if they want us to cooperate they should write a letter to us requesting us to partner in the project or we don't read the information," moreover, the head of province, Ndikillo explained that together with the fact that those councils have been divided, but still construction projects are read and to recognize city councils. moreover, he said the money for Ilemela municipal council from the account goes through the city, therefore they should wait until July this year when they will start being independent on everything, and then things shall be put in order. Ndikillo's point made mayor Matata stand again and insist that the law of local governments of the year 1982 is clear about that issue, therefore Mwanza city council has no authority to keep managing that project. after mayor Matata gave that point, Nyamangana's representative, Hezekiah Wenje also stood to counter him with explanations that them as the city council have had good agreements with Ilemela, and more so they have been working as brothers and therefore there is no point of distrusting each other. "we have been working as brothers, even when our fellows peers isolated themselves, we helped them by all means to build their municipal including even giving the cooking pots to start life with, so where does this mistrust come from?" questioned Wenje. however, Ilemela member of parliament Highness Kiwia, disputed his fellow member of parliament saying that Mwanza city council have not been honest in everything they agree on giving examples of agreements they reached about projects with doubts to be made a union committee before implementation but all those projects, including the the market and the disagreement that came up in the attempt to move Mwaloni market to Kirumba in the city council when it was in the borders of Ilemela municipal council. "brother chairman, until now Ilemela municipal council does not know what is going on in this project. we don't even know the construction contract. how can you say the contribution of the council in this project is land that came from Ilemela, our peers dominate everything... there is great betrayal from the city council," said Kiwia. on his side, Buchosa member of parliament who is also the deputy minister for transport, Charles Tizeba, advised that the report be read with an aim of just giving information so that other members of parliament from other councils get an opportunity to know what is going on about that project, but he requested that the report should not be discussed until when the two sides meet to solve that dispute. both sides agreed with that opinion, and the report was read without discussion.
T164 SSRA comes with an alternate of Fao commitment it is written by Halima Mlacha published: 29 September 2016 when the commitment status continues to be discussed for the solution, the Management of and Management of the Social Security Sector (SSRA) has proposed the establishment of a post-employment Fao alternative. the Fao will be issued to employees who have lost jobs by being dismissed or laid off at work but not to those who have decided to quit their own work. the same authority has reported that approximately 23 million workers among the 25 million workers in the formal employment sector are equivalent to 91 percent. 2 did not join social storage bags. the statement was made in Dar es Salaam last year by the Director of Research and Policy Ansgar Mushi, while presenting a topic on community conservation concept and the challenges of members opting out to contribute to community reserve bags, at a one-day press conference scheduled with that authority. he mentioned the praises of Fao of the unemployment status as a member when he or she is proven to be dismissed or laid off, the fund will give him 33 percent of the employee's salary for a period of six months. "only the terms of this Fao will be issued only to a 18-year-old employee who contributes for a period of 18 months for those who have contributed for less than 18 months will be given 100 percent of what they have donated," said Mushi. he said another feature of the same, it does not affect employee pension benefits including other benefits provided by community pockets such as education, reproduction, treatment and disability. he said the Fao of employment loss would not be given to an employee who left his own job because it would not be a disaster that needs help as the whole idea of the establishment of social security bags. "our studies show up to 78 percent of employees who apply for the most dedicated Fao are senior professionals in the sense of being able to continue working elsewhere. most of them are leaving their jobs with employment contracts elsewhere, asking for these funds only for other activities," he said. Mushi said the goal of the establishment of social policing in accordance with the law and the constitution is to pay an employee pension to simplify his life during the period that he cannot earn income. however, he stated that the impact of the donation is much as the employee has the opportunity to receive short-term benefits such as reproduction, education, disability and illness, loss of pension benefits and lack of liquidity in social stocks and so failing to pay bonuses to other deserving staff. "in the case of Fao commitment, when an employee is paid he is taken off of the social security fund even when he becomes ill or have any catastrophe the fund does not recognize. my office has been receiving just about 34,000 employees who have been given the donation offer now asking for rehabilitation," he stressed. accordingly, the Legal Services Director of that authority Honorius Njole, said it was still at the stage of the debate and it was not approved while the debate on the Fao of commitment continued to receive comments. he said in managing social security bags, the SSRA has set up 14 guidelines since its start of work in 2008, including the unlimited guidelines for the use of the bags, membership registration guidelines and records handling or member information. other guidelines are for moving to any social reserve fund, investment guide, member financial security, social stock savings liquidity and guidance for boards trustees. for its part, the SSRA Relationship and Mobilization Director, Sara Kibonde, said the community still needs to be educated about the importance of joining community stock pockets as it is useful to the whole community including those who are not present in the formal employment sector. she said according to statistics of the authorities, the total number of employees present in the formal sector is 2 million. 1 out of 25 million workers attended. "so approximately 23 million employees are equivalent to 91 percent 2 do not join these pockets." she also said when pension funds have 2.1 million members, among them, social security pension bags are 1.1 million members while the health insurance fund is 920,701 members. he said until now those funds have 105,057 pensioners, the contributions of those members that reach 1 trillion shillings. 69 and health insurance 88 billion shillings. 5, of which total is 1 billion shillings. 78.
T163 Meru's are against women inheriting land. written by Veronica Mheta, Arusha. printed: 14 December 2016. leaders of the Ameru tribe, Washili Arusha region have asked the government to change the land law of the year 1999, claiming that it disagrees with the tradition and customs of their tribe since it is the source of many disputes in that region. but instead, those leaders want the law that gives women inheritance of land to go with the traditions and customs of their tribe that denies women the right to inherit and selling land in that region. they claimed that the land laws of the year 1999 that gives a woman the right to inherit, own, to utilize it and also selling it when she wants, is a source of many land conflicts in that district because most of the widows have been selling family land without permission. according to those clan leaders, women and girl child in that tribe have a right to use and own the inherited land but they are not allowed exchange the land ownership without engaging the the traditional elders of that clan. while speaking in a campaign of increasing understanding of women in the ownership of land and property to women of Arumeru district which was started by the party of women lawyers in Tanzania (Tawla) in Maji ya Chai ward, the leader of traditional clan of Pallangyo, Jackson Emanuel Pallangyo claimed that never will Meru allow a woman to have final decisions in the ownership of land and property for inheritance. "they are allowed to own and use the land and property but they have no right to have the final decision of those properties because according to their traditions, it is a must they involve the clans' old men before doing anything and that is our stand which can never be changed," he insisted during the launch of that campaign. when he was asked if those traditional leaders can agree with the commitment of the government to involve women and men equally in levels of leadership and provision of decision, Pallangyo claimed that to them can never be possible because women are easily lied to than women. that stand was supported with another old tradition man, Zakayo Loti Nnko of Kitefu village in Maji ya Chai ward who claimed that giving women their final rights of ownership of land and property it is to give them stubbornness, to show contempt to their husbands when they get married and having an opportunity to share those properties when the husband dies. however, those stands were resisted by some of the women who attended that launch and they claimed that those traditions and customs have been used to withhold women's right of land ownership and property and they are the ones that are contributing to a lot of women being harassed in that district. she too Bertha Ayo, the resident of Kitefu village in that ward of Maji Ya Chai said that a lot of land conflicts in that district arise when a husband dies whereby the brothers of the deceased want to rob the widow with on the pretext of traditions but the main thing is greed for property because of the land having a high value in those areas. previously, the Tawla project coordinator, Cesilia Ngaiza said the three years campaign, will involve the community itself to have debates in the village and the ward level and to arouse the problems that are there in the issues of ownership of land and property for women and the best way to deal with them.
T162 farming now in the internet and Bernardine Mutanu. East Africa countries have introduce the program of installing information in the internet concerning farming and food like a way of preventing food shortage in this area. while speaking during the launch of that program yesterday, the secretary general of United Nations of East Africa zone (EAC) about business, Mister John Konchella said the statistics of produce and livestock that will be stored in this program will be very important not only to the concerned government but to all the citizen as a whole. "South African nations are mostly affected by lack of food. there are some of the areas that are severely affected by hunger even though this is able to give more produce that can provide for all the citizens and also to be sold in foreign countries," he said. he said among the factors that caused the situation was weaknesses in food exchange among the nations of Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, and other EAC countries or areas with surplus food and those with scarce food. some of the other factors that contributes to this state include cost of production as well as bad weather due to climatic change, explained Mister Konchella. "based on this fact, EAC has revealed a plan of ensuring food security and to cop with hunger," said Mister Konchella. he explained that the plan was the first step towards implementing a contract set out among the EAC countries. according to the agreement, these nations should cooperate to strengthen agriculture and crop production as well as to address food shortage. relevant states are required to launch the projects of food shortage and production in their words and to make sure it will followed and that there is enough food," said Mister Konchella. the program contains data for all types of products in each country and the quantity of crop yields available annually in all parts of the EAC. according to one representative of World Food Program (FAO), that steps is important to ensure that the way of food in different areas are understood quickly.
T161 Shinyanga commends the plan for quality education it is written by specialist author, Shinyanga published: 04 November 2016 education stakeholders in the Shinyanga Region have commended the government for establishing a well-known "equip" education program that has helped improve the level of education here. the stakeholders who are Education officials, Ward Education Coordinators and experts involved in implementing Education Development have said that the 'equip Tanzania' Program has greatly contributed to increasing the level of education in the curriculum due to the reduction of existing challenges, including poor parent and teacher cooperation. they were talking during a specialized training provided by 'equip' in Kahama district in Shinyanga Ward for building capacity to communicate and exchange information on implementation results. the stakeholders have commended the program by establishing a partnership with parents and teachers popularly known as the UWW. they said that this unity has made teachers and parents closer and tracked their children's academic development and learning environment where some schools have been able to provide lunch, which has contributed to increased success. giving an example of Mwenge primary school the City Planning coordinator in Shinyanga Municipality, Zezema Shilungushela, said that other achievements include parents understanding their role in contributing to school development, for example, establishing school development projects and having a good relationship between teachers, parents and communities. besides, the stakeholders have thanked the government for recognizing them and providing them with instruments of work, especially motorcycles for the ward education coordinator, which helped them in following up on program implementation and parent education even though there are still challenges in some of the areas parents not understanding and claiming allowances for sittings to discuss the development of the school.
T160 stock exchange
T169 poor Wastara admits to deteriorate artistically since the death of her husband film star in the country Wastara Juma has said she feels has lost direction that makes her deteriorate artistically since the death of her husband, Juma Kilowoko 'Sijuki' since her motivation for work is lost. telling stories with our paparazzi recently, she said Sajuki was a great help to her as an artist beside her normal life, she is unable to go through the ways she was being taken through by her husband to an extend of finding herself producing a range of two to three films annually. "it is just a confession I have dropped in terms of art, the pace of the that time has gone down, my husband was devoted to ensure our strategy is in progress, in a year I produced up to three films but since then I only go for one a whole year," she said.
T168 Yemi Alade explains how she was able to sing a song in Swahili 'Na Gode-Swahili Version' the Nigerian music star, Yemi Alade who is in the country at the moment for the Fiesta Dar 2016 festival, told us how she was able to sing a Swahili song which she named a Gode-Swahili Version. while speaking to journalists before the Fiesta took place, Yemi Alade said that she loves learning various languages including Swahili and when she wanted to sing that song it didn't give her much trouble to complete the whole song. "I love to understand many languages, I have songs that I sang in French, Portuguese, all those I learned from people I met with, I learn language from friends, I think this time Vanessa (Mdee) will teach me Swahili," said Yemi Alade.
T530 elephant
T523 Shekifu do you remember Ole Sendeka's? May 15, 2014 the other day here in parliament several members of parliament got the opportunity to contribute to the budget speech by the Office of the Prime Minister. everyone who got the opportunity to contribute to the debate said what they wanted to say. among those who got the chance is Member of Parliament Henry Shekifu, who proclaimed that he was as well also the Chairman of the ruling party in Tanga district. unsurprisingly, Shekifu has been able to hold elective posts here and there within this country that has no clear selection criteria. in his contribution, it is as if Shekifu had prepared to attack Korogwe District Commissioner, Mrisho Gambo and he took advantage of the budget of the Office of the Prime Minister to carry out attacks. what offended Shekfu is the decision by the Korogwe District Commissioner in January this year ordering the detention of Aweso Kipaku (34) the Councilor for Mswaha-Darajani Ward, Mombo Division of Korogwe District, Tanga Province (CCM). the District Commissioner ordered the Councilor's detention on January 24 this year at 5 pm in the evening and got bail at ten o'clock at night. it was not only the Councilor but also his fellow colleagues who are, the Chief Executive Officer for Mswaha-Darajani village, Abbas Siafu and the Chairman of the village Council of Dharjan village, Said Kijiwa. they were detained because of the accusations against them by the Committee on Security and Protection of Korogwe District, that they had participated in inciting the conflict between farmers and herders in Mswaha-Darajani village. it is not possible to use this opportunity to discuss accurately or vice versa about the District Commissioner's decision, but it is to remind Shekifu a bit about the era when he was the Manyara Provincial Commissioner. because in his contribution on the budget of the Office of the Prime Minister, Shekifu boasted that he has been a Provincial Commissioner and his did that work professionally without interfering with 'stakeholders', without 'detaining' them. it is because of that, things cannot be left as they are, Shekifu must reminded of how he had tasted the wine of provincial supremacy, how he was undecided and wavering until he found himself at odds with Simanjiro Member of Parliament, Christopher ole Sendeka. that's why, the same Shekifu 'wine' of power became too sweet and he began playing politics here and there while he went on with farming activities in the province which he led, land disputes erupted while he sat on the provincial administration seat. it was as if the provincial administrator at that time tumbled into in a "war" of mutual mutual disrespect with Sendeka and publicly, to the extent that the incident of their hostility 'hit' the news headlines. if he has forgotten, then without doubt he will remember the incident of him and Sendeka fighting at the internal session for government official of the Sukuro and Kitiangare villages right there in Simanjiro within Manyara Province where he was in charge. he will clearly recall how he used the "wine" of power to order the expulsion of one Member of Parliament of the Sukuro County Government just because the member is claimed to clapped in support of a point raised by another Member of Parliament that, the ranch project being debated upon was not in the interest of the people of those villages. without doubt Shekifu can remember that the agenda of that session is the demarcation of the new village of Kitiangare and the setting aside of a sum of 45,000 acres of land from six villages for the implementation of the ranch project that was being implemented by the Ilramatak-Lorkoroney organization.
T377 the Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said that at a two-day symposium that was held in Tehran city in Iran while the main goal being awareness to women in the world in their communities so that they can bring change . he said women are able to bring change as a result of having a major ability to influence and standing for good values and the unity of managing foundations of human rights in different development sectors . <foreign> . <foreign> . what we need to learn for us Tanzanians is that is to continue reminding each other and to continue to emphasize in what way a woman will take her responsibilities as required but without affecting the family and especially on the basis of religion . that two-day meeting which took place in Tehran in Iran had approximately one thousand two hundred participants from eighty-five countries including female professors in various professions who submitted topics of discussion and challenges they went through in bringing development and revolutions in their communities . from Dar es Salaam I am Fauzia Yusuf Channel Ten .
T505 <misc> in our program today which is a continuation of the previous program of different happenings in the city of Dar es Salaam . together with managing the law and road signs as well as citizen's safety the police force road safety unit has a responsibility of educating civilians and road users so that they deeply understand rules and road signs . <no-speech> the Ubu program met with one of the managers of school children and educated him that children's safety is not just when crossing the road but also when they are seated in the bus . if you are a teacher for example when the vehicle has stopped on this side how do you cross to the other side ? <no-speech> we take the vehicle there where they are we don't let them cross the road . mm . eh . and if it is crossing the road therefore you leave the pupils themselves -- to cross on their own ? they have people to help them cross they follow (()) of their parents or their sisters . so we make sure we hand them over to them then -- that is when we leave . for example if the sibling or parent to the child has delayed ? we remain with him there at the station until when the parent will come I hand him over . ahh is when you hand him over ? mm . now on this school bus has there ever been a case where a pupil maybe sticks their head out playing with a colleague inside the bus ? no it -- it happens -- you may see they want stick out their hand (()) mostly I watch over (()) . they take hands out ? restlessness as if he wants to get out so I become very careful looking after them to prevent that . mostly they are good . ahh . mm . then your procedure is good but we have seen there are some schools where you find a teacher just relaxes in their office they again do not bother with the children . children play in the bus they get their heads out they are not keen with the children at all . therefore it becomes very dangerous even to our children . that is bad . mm what do you tell teachers of that kind maybe of other schools of other vehicles who are not careful with children who are in the vehicles well ? (()) so it is that he was giving advise that you try keep people to take care of the children there in the vehicles because personally there are a lot of vehicles I have seen with children . mm there are those who jump in the vehicle they walk around there are some who get their heads out I have really seen . mm . so I don't know what (()) they have . I was advising that they should have people to look after those children so that (()) . ahh . so there should be a person who -- has special employment for the sake of just looking after the children in the vehicle . <no-speech>
T504 the ministry of health has undertaken certification improvements and seals of yellow fever vaccines. minister of health, community development, gender, elderly and children, Ummy Mwalimu has launched certificates and new seals for yellow fever vaccines. Ummy said the delivery of the vaccine of the disease in the country is facing the challenge of the presence of some dishonest citizens who are faking vaccination certificates and giving them to travelers without being vaccinated. and that in order to eradicate the deception, it has decided to upgrade the old certificates by placing hidden marks. "as a result of technological changes, old certificates have been easy to be made by the conmen and given without vaccination. therefore, the ministry has made improvements on certificates of vaccination of yellow fever by putting secret marks and making new seals," he said. he said the yellow fever disease is dangerous because it has no cure and that the government has seen it fit to protect the travelers, especially that the World's Health Organization recently reported the outbreak of the epidemic. "if you remember in late March 2016, I gave a warning of yellow fever due to the report of the presence of the disease in neighboring countries of Kenya, Angola and the DRC," he added. "recently, the World's Health Organization gave a report on the outbreak of the epidemic that began in December 2015 and resulted in the death of 377 people and 4,347 patients in Angola while in DRC 121 people lost their lives.
T507 soccer
T506 ten . <no-speech> the preparations of the Easter holiday festival the year two thousand and thirteen are heating up after the number of musicians who are being voted to participate in that festival continue increasing . speaking in Dar es Salaam city the chairman of -- of organization committee Alex Msamo mentioned the musicians who were voted for who continued to be voted for from outside are Solomon Mkubwa Ephraim Sekeleti and Anastasia Mukabwa and from the local musicians were Yopenda Ukilailo and John Lisu . Msamo have said that in this year's festival they have made changes on the shortcomings that came up in the last year's festival that was held in the Dar es Salaam city national stadium for the aim of the highest level of excellence . <no-speech> the preparations up to now towards the Easter holiday festival are good and the musicians who have been elected we have talked with them . and all have confirmed participation in the Easter holiday festival . those musicians are Ephraim Sekeleti musician from there -- in the country Zambia already -- has been passed has confirmed participation in the Easter holiday festival . another musician is Anastasia Mukabwa from there in the country Kenya . and she also has confirmed to participate in the Easter holiday festival . <no-speech>
T501 breakfast
T500 sustainability motorcycle
T468 do you always postpone the implementation of your activities? how, when you have a matter you want to implement, J usually postpone until a time you think is very right? have you ever regretted that if you could have done something at a certain time, you would have found success in your life? if yes, why didn't you do it at that time? what have you learned? there are people who are accustomed every time to wait until the time they think was right to do a certain thing. I remember the story of a young man who had a good job and a satisfying salary, who lived for a long time without marrying although he wished to marry. he needed love, to have a household and children. what caused him grief? at one time he got a lover and involved his relatives and family until they planned for him a wedding. but a day to the marriage, he changed his mind and cancelled getting married. after that, every time he attempted marrying, he postponed, especially upon realizing that the girl he wanted to marry had a certain defect. finally, he got a girl that he saw very suitable. she was beautiful, attractive and with wisdom and very intelligent. even so, one day that young man while sited with her preparing wedding plans, she uttered something that made him skeptical. therefore in order to confirm she was a girl who was suitable, he decided to write for her regulations which he wanted her to agree to implement when they got married. those regulations mentioned various things like the friends they deserve to have, the kind of work his wife deserves to be employed to do, what their sources of revenues for their livelihood will be, how their home where they will live will look like and how the division of labor between husband and wife will be. also, he wrote other regulations concerning things like smoking, drinking liquor, the way of entertainment and other several things. when his lover was given the list of these regulations, she refused them all and their engagement was broken. the young man had mistakes that affect many people in their lives. a human being can be careful not only in planning a wedding, rather even in various other things, like to choose jobs, build a house, buy a car, to start a project and others. successes don't come as a result of our ability to remove all obstacles that confront the thing we intend to do, rather it is our ability to solve problems that will emerge when we will be implementing. we don't have a choice in wisdom to decide the level that satisfies needs to start implementation. it's not advisable to cancel a journey for fearing to encounter bridges or big forests, but with bravery let's cross those obstacles as we proceed forth with the journey. the habit of postponing implementation of important things in life has affected the development of many people. research has shown that people with huge successes are those who don't wait until tomorrow rather they start to implement today. those with average success include individuals who decide to commence implementation even though by swaying from side to side. those without success are those who wait until the situation will look appropriate then they decide to do a certain thing. we must remember that all the successes we see in the world like wonderful machines, tall buildings and astonishing scientific inventions like sending equipment up to the moon and many others are a result of human thoughts. but people who thought about ideas or these concepts, if they would have been undecided and disregard their speedy implementation they wouldn't have emerged. if these inventors would have resorted to waiting until the appropriate time comes they would have ended up burying their thoughts. it's good we remember that everything that we decide to do in life has two types of strength. the first strength is that which makes the matter, that is being implemented to be hard which we may call 'difficulties'. another strength is, that which makes that thing be able to be implemented with ease which we can call 'opportunity'. people who hesitate to implement a certain thing, are those who allow their minds to be ruled by that strength of difficulties that make them wait until later. but those who conceptualize the power in their minds, usually don't waste time rather act responsively. one important subject that we should be compelled to learn out of this article is that in order for us to succeed in life we are obliged to be people of action and not people who like saying 'tomorrow', next week, next year or later. let's not wait and to be patient by giving ourselves hopes until things become right. implement once without wasting time. meet with the difficulties and problems and solve them as you implement. start from today, to implement things you think will bring you development. don't waste time because periods pass and usually don't wait for someone.
T469 in Africa, it is taboo to rejoice about death it is against customs and traditions of many African communities to humiliate and to despise the dead. it is normal for a community to mourn even a thug ambushed and killed while committing crime. that state is what carry out crime. that condition is what differentiates us from other communities elsewhere in the world. we are heading to ethical perversion when we turn a family tragedy and make it a political platform where we mutilate each other and throw 'mud' at each other. for example, what kind of anger makes a person appear to celebrate the death of a fellow human being because of political differences? since the son of the former prime minister Raila Odinga died on Sunday morning, Kenyans of different walks have shown up to mourn that young man whose associates mentions him as kind and loving. but the most annoying thing is that the mourning has taken a tribal and political course in that there are some who appear to celebrate while saying it is a worthy punishment to the family of Mister Odinga which has been a thorn politically to his opponents. it is clear that such a family which has been involved with opposition politics for a long time and to have tough stands might have so many political enemies. but there are boundaries where politics is separated from normal life. that is saying, in other words, politics is not a matter of life and death. Mister Odinga and his family are mourning their child with a human heart, what we urge those bubbling out insults on the internet are supposed to stop that habit. that is not the image of our Kenyanism ever. like we once said in these platforms, maybe tribalism will take us into the pit of destruction as a country if we won't take caution. it is hard to understand whatever is pushing a person to hate another on the basis, that they come from different communities to a level that they seem to be happy at the death of one of them. and while investigations associated with the death of the late Fidel Odinga continues, we urge everyone to give investigators and pathologists time to determine what killed that uprising businessman.
T466 the most important thing
T47 <no-speech> finally the riddle of getting new leaders of the U_V_C_C_M has been solved today in Dodoma town where Khamis Sadifa Juma has been chosen as the new chairman of the union while Mboni Mhita Mohammed emerged as the winner of the vice chairman's position . the president of Zanzibar and chairman of the revolutions council Doctor Ali Mohammed Shaine is the one who opened the election meeting and asked the youth to educate the public on the good things that had been done by the government of the United Republic of Tanzania and the Zanzibar government . <no-speech> (()) the propaganda we're doing with the opposition can endanger the unity of our nation . therefore it's your duty brothers and the youth of U_V_C_C_M to ensure you're answering the misfortune of correct explanations that are being done by our party and our government in order to seal and deride every option . <no-speech> so that the citizens can know the truth instead of continuing to be silent since saying too much can distort the truth . <no-speech> don't accept that our citizen you misled while the truth is clear . <no-speech> we know it and (()) and we must explain it . <no-speech> and when the topics get answers that are correct then doubt is cast off . <no-speech> <no-speech> likewise Doctor Shaine has issued a warning to all those who want to endanger the peace of the country and added that the government won't cast a blind eye on them .
T464 <no-speech> some of the rice farmers in the district of Bahi have claimed to have contracted eye and skin infections immediately they got into the farms after the Urani company conducted a research on their farms . our reporter Kulinge Mongi reports more from Dodoma province . those claims were made when this station visited several of those farmers who were affected by the water available in their farms . it was since I started here in the garden that contracted this eye problem . <no-speech> then I went -- I had gone to work and that problem affected me while there -- the water was sprinkling on my face . <no-speech> am disturbed by eyes and these eyes are not for for a very long time . <no-speech> I see is recently this year I have entered -- here in the garden to do rice farming that is when I saw disturbance and disturbance of -- of that type . the problem of our water this year this dirty water when you bath you are irritated and when you drink you diarrhea mmhm yes that problem . as a result of fear of being more affected those several farmers have feared to continue with rice farming and so asked the government in that district to provide advice on the future of that problem . now I was asking the government wholeheartedly even though the time of planting our rice produce which we rely on is over and we are on the last phase and the rain is about to stop to make a statement . then we come to at least plant soya beans if it has no effects at least soya beans if the rains will come back these of the last moments -- last moments . on her side the head of Bahi district Miss Betty Mkwasa has confessed to have gotten the reports of the presence of that problem and the actions have been taken of taking the samples of water and soil to the head government chemist and up to now they have not found the results of that research . those people -- who said that they have such problems after going to inspect in the health centers there is not even one who went -- to get treated in the -- health center or dispensary . <no-speech> therefore what was done they took the water -- water sample but similarly they took soil sample in order to take to the head chemist who up to now we have not gotten the answer . from here in Dodoma am Kulinge Mongi . <no-speech>
T465 the CCM has lost an opportunity to clean itself up, now they will face repercussions! November 15, 2012 Revolutionary Party (CCM) only had one opportunity to redeem itself and demonstrate that it deserves to be looked at and accepted again by Tanzanians. this position came through the VIII general meeting that was culminated in Dodoma. this Meeting, as I showed in last week's article, is the highest organ in the CCM. it is a more superior organ even to the constitution of CCM. it is this meeting that plans for all national leaders of the party and it's the meeting that dictates the direction of CCM's politics. in the past - before most repatriated parties were introduced - the CCM's General Meeting was the determinant of the direction our nation would take for the next five years. unfortunately, the CCM has not only lost its direction but also seems to have lost its history. this meeting was meant for restoration. CCM's general meeting was meant to be for restoring and pulling weeds out within CCM. leaders who were not ousted at the lower levels due to various reasons - especially after failing to have policies to unmask - they were supposed to be forcefully exposed in the CCM's general meeting. CCM has really condoned corruption to the extend that even the righteous appear to be in a pool of mud. and a topic can easily arise through the CCM's failure to clean itself up, it has confirmed that no one is clean. this meeting was initially meant for reinvention because of one main reason - the CCM has been corrupted, they have soiled each other as a result of its leadership, the nation has also been soiled. from after the 2005 election but largely after the Richmond's 2006-2008 scandal the conflicts that emerged inside CCM confirms that they cannot resonate at all. it is that lack of understanding that has been a problem in CCM and in the nation. Kikwete has demonstrated weakness. one of the thing that has emerged at the meeting and for a fact from that NEC's meeting at Butiana that Chairman Jakaya Kikwete has failed to demonstrate the steadfastness of providing proper leadership to his party. since that sitting at Butiama until the most recent one in Dodoma, President Kikwete has been someone who gives orders that he has been repeating like a stuck recorder. there is nothing new that they said at Kizota that they have never said before about his party. he has already talked about the issue of dissolving groups, on the issue of those who failed in the elections should not bring problems, he already spoke about it and for sure, even the issue of threats including murder among CCM members are not new (he already mentioned before that CCM members have reached a point that they fear welcoming each other for a glass of water for fear of being poisoned). his recent speech was a repetition of the same song that is not danceable. he was not any brilliant more than to continue talking in general about the same things to the same people. we remember when he changed the cabinet ministers last time, he promised that those who caused the ministers' downfall would also be removed. today we are heading towards the end of the year and individuals continue to hang on and maintain power. Chairman Kikwete is not feared. he cannot talk about cleanliness while his own daughter is suspected of various activities that do not reflect his cleanliness. Chairman Kikwete is getting more problems because he has not come out as a person who can stand for and make things happen. he has led rebels into his party, in the CCM's meetings, he keeps on complaining, blaming and leaving individuals on the sideline to continue disagreeing about their belief in democracy, not knowing that by doing that he has weakened CCM more than ever before. it has gotten to the point where the union of our nation is in jeopardy because of his party and his fellow party members. when it gets to a point the wife of the founder of the union says she doesn't see the benefits of the union, then we are in trouble! CCM's failures Chadema's joy personally, I believe that because CCM managed to get to this meeting and they have failed to redeem themselves and also failed to demonstrated that they are truly united (as the topic of the meeting indicated) it is clear that heading to 2015, CCM has confirmed disgruntled groups that we will be seeing. these groups will continue to trouble us not only because of Kikwete but because of other CCM leaders who have failed to get an opportunity redeem themselves and they have weakened the party further.
T462 face syn visage earth syn world
T463 am arguing with the children of our presidents March 06, 2014 I have read from the newspaper (no a good citizen), Ridhwani, the child of President Kikwete, complaining that he is hounded and accused of many things. "the time my elderly father was getting into politics (vying for president) I met with Abdallah Mwinyi (the child of the retired President, Elder Mwinyi), and he told me the challenges that I will meet with as a child of the president, and now I am witnessing them." those are the words of Ridhiwani quoted on the newspaper I read. I do not write this article to target Ridhwani or to accuse him on anything. I want to put things into perspective and speak against the children of our presidents. I do not oppose Ridhwani that when you are the child of the president you face many challenges. is the truth, the reason the president is the leader of the country. every eye is focused on the president and that way all those surrounding him must be focused on. for that reason it is a must and is important to stay "right". even so I do not accept that when you are the child of the president especially in our nation of Tanzania you must be hounded and accused! I support my argument as follows. our nation up to today have been led by four presidents. and by good luck our presidents have children. and starting with Mzee Mwinyi mentioned by Ridhwani, I have not heard of any child of Mzee Mwinyi being trapped and accused falsely because his father was president. if there is someone who heard the children of Mzee Mwinyi being targeted and accused to come out and testify. I have surety that these children have their works, they have business and other activities but I have not gotten to hear their activities being linked to their father's position. Mzee Mwinyi's wife, Mama Siti was trapped and accused falsely of many issues including claims that she used her husband's name to do business. even so after a deep investigation and comparing with what happened after Mzee Mwinyi coming from government people realized that Mama Siti was mistreated. the truth is that Mzee Mwinyi when in power none of his children were targeted and accused for doing business or having excessive wealth. even so, I have heard in the estates that his other child, who is now a minister, Hussein Mwinyi, is being blamed for "opening wide" on the road with a car when going to work from his home. people questioned: if the minister stretches apart and is defeated to follow the laws of the road what will other people do? and the truth is that "when he stretches apart" and other people will follow his behind. even so this behavior of "stretching apart" on the road it not because this is a child of the retired president but is his behavior as himself. children of Mwalimu Nyerere are all still alive. I did not get to hear the time of the reign of Mwalimu Nyerere that any of his child being targeted and accused because his father is the president of the nation. furthermore, I have not heard claims that these children have excessive wealth. if anyone got to hear I request that he come out and testify. even after Mwalimu's retirement until his death in October 14, 1999, I have not heard any of Mwalimu's children mentioned in dirty affairs. the children of Mwalimu Nyerere went to normal schools after living a totally normal life in the society. even today they continue living a totally normal life. it's my belief that even they will run their life by doing business and other activities but I have not heard of them being targeted or of any pointed fingers at any dirty affairs. it is open that the children of the presidents will be getting their challenges the time their father was in power but those of being targeted and accused of owning excessive wealth or involving themselves with dirty affairs of corruption and others of the same I have not heard. retired President Benjamin William Mkapa also have children. I have not heard at the time of his reign any of his child being targeted and accused of dirty affairs. if am not wrong there are many Tanzanians who know even the names of the children of elder Mkapa. those names did not decorate the headings of the newspapers or they did not join politics and also they did not use their father's name for anything. if there is anyone who thinks am saying a lie then to come out to remove his testimony. if am not wrong the child our presidents who have been heard of more in the media and the one who have been targeted and accused of many issues is Ridhwani Kikwete. I do not like to believe that he is targeted because he is the child of the president.
T460 we should use Ramadan to remove our political differences. the faithful people of the Islam religion for now are continuing with the fasting of the holy month of Ramadan which takes them approximately 30 days depending with and accompanying the moon. this is a period during which those faithful people bring themselves closer to the Almighty God by doing what has instructed in the holy Quran. this is a month which many uses to help those in need, self-denial, forgiveness and other many things that please the Almighty God. this journey, this holy month of Ramadan has come at a time when political differences have emerged in the country, differences which are increasing instead of reducing. in Zanzibar Islands, those political differences now which were caused by the nullification of election results and repeated, have entered into the usual life of citizens who are now discriminating each other from societal, work, business and even faith based engagements. citizens are discriminating against each other in transport vessels, they are invading each other's farms, they are discriminating each other in mosques and other engagements, and there seems to be no solution for that situation. the situation hasn't gotten to that level in mainland Tanzania, but acts by politicians show that it could head there. yesterday, the parliamentarians from the opposition side decided to stop talking with their colleagues in CCM after their plan of wanting the bill opposing the deputy speaker Doctor Tulia Ackson on allegations of discriminating them lacked a solution to date. this is a bad signal because such things start slowly until they spread to citizens as it is in Zanzibar currently. we don't like seeing this situation happening without getting a solution because it doesn't give a good indication. there are no holy writings that promote these discriminatory acts and not finding a solution when differences arise. all writings insist on love, living in harmony and caring about others. because the holy month of Ramadan has found this situation ongoing, it is wise to use this holy period to meditate on our country's ways and finding approaches that will be able to safeguard the country from any problems that will arise from lack of love among Tanzanians and lack of resolution efforts. the point at which every side feels perfect, is the ultimate sign that we all have weakness and it is only the Almighty God who is perfect. for Christians, the scriptures offer good fortune to the peace makers. these ones have not yet come out during this period of political differences. in escorting their Islam brothers, they also have a role in ensuring that this month is used well to safeguard our country against any situation that might caused by these political differences that seem to be growing. we need to differ politically because it is healthy for the nation when there are different ideas that aim to strengthen one thing. but when those differences grow and enter into the normal life of the citizen, it is not healthy for the nation because even if the opinions of one side might help the nation, they can't be accommodated by another side, that is not a good thing. it is our expectation that the citizens will meditate deeply on the state of our nation during this fasting period of the holy month of Ramadan and humble themselves before the Almighty God for Him to give us wisdom to find a way of resolving or preventing this situation from continuing. those who are not fasting during this period are also required to meditate deeply on our country's direction and find ways of returning things back to the correct line.
T461 minister advocates health officials about illegal liquor by Wanjiru Macharia Health Minister Mister James Macharia yesterday dismissed claims for his officials saying he had presented 390 illegal liquor to the State Laboratory for an investigation two months ago. weeping the deaths of 84 people who died after drinking poisonous liquor, Minister Macharia said the officials had made efforts to pursue illegal liquor but delayed the results affected their efforts. Mister Macharia said people who had problems after drinking poisonous liquor and being transported to various hospitals exceeded the capacity of the centers, especially Kenyatta National Hospital, which still had to deal with dangerous influences of road explosions of Thika Road on Sunday. speaking at a conference on medical examination at Elementaita area, Mister Macharia said many of the illegal liquor consumers were taken to Kenyatta hospital while it was not prepared to handle the huge number. "handling more than 350 patients at once who were unexpected is not a simple task, remembering that the hospital still had Thika Road victims," said the minister. he confirmed that 84 people had died after drinking poisonous liquor while 249 others were admitted at different hospitals in Nairobi, Kitui, Makueni Embu, Kiambu and Murang'a.
T484 that in that construction of stadiums there are many challenges . that the biggest challenge like he had said (()) director James Bwire that there is a challenge of water together with that grass which has been planted . at least they have started to bring about hope . now the official report without a doubt will be issued by the concerned himself but for a little while he hasn't come here . I expect him not for a long time . therefore he will have these to answer to tell players what it is that there were many challenges . water is a problem in a big way it forced that vehicles do extra work to go sprinkle sprinkle water so that the stadiums can be in evergreen like it's expected because it's the youth will be (()) here . in this way now that's in that way a little later that things are going on %incomplete now there are many challenges and this major one -- even the day before yesterday we have been able to hear the minister -- the Assistant Minister for Youth Culture and Sports Juma Suleiman Nkamia was talking about news regarding the stadiums and one of the questions he was asked . there are five stadiums that have been authorized by the International Federation of Football Associations FIFA that that can be used during international matches but we still have many challenges . many premier league clubs don't have stadiums . and this is the biggest problem and in one of the regulations that were issued by C_A_F starting from next season clubs will be required to have stadiums . now I don't know they will have what level of ability because that real good of our clubs . it's their management isn't good they have a poor economic condition . things are not good . now I don't know T_F_F will have -- will emphasize what thing that it can be settled well . in that way the big problem (()) stadiums teams don't have stadiums . even the big problem if you leave out Azam F_C team only they have their stadium there at Chamazi . Azam complex which has satisfied -- all criteria therefore it can be used . if you leave out C_C_M stadium which is owned by the party of the revolution . (()) Tanga Sheikh (()) Abedi and other regions . therefore there will still be big challenges . but during these matches of youth teams that will be held here in Mwanza that there will be -- which preparations of approximately four stadiums have been completed to be made and they are at the last last steps of repairs here and there that that its rehabilitation work and that opening matches there will be held at C_C_M Kirumba stadium . therefore there will be things like that . and already I know things are going well . well let's get a small advertisement and then later my guest already has arrived . he is the owner of the guarantee James Bwire therefore let's get an advertisement in the studio and we'll be with him here . <no-speech>
T485 rebuild
T486 fisherman
T487 under the bed
T480 it will also be used on matters of terrorism . therefore you shouldn't expect to get one hundred percent of security without us knowing what is truly happening so that we can be able to protect you . therefore there are other things . after our government considers ours is to consider what is the impact ? out of other users how many are (()) ? we are saying approximately nine million users are the ones using the internet and among those you might find not more than six hundred who misuse it . now will you block the whole Facebook because six hundred out of nine million people are misusing it ? one spoils the reputation for all . he spoils the reputation for all but that's why we usually look at the magnitude of the problem . if it gets to a point where it's truly seen -- it has become rampant something which people want T_C_R_A to do is to block these networks . but we ask ourselves we have set up the government and it has built four thousand kilometers of cable to also reach the citizens in communication . and then you start blocking the communication . can't you see that there's a contradiction here . now what should happen ? I can only say provide education . provide education provide education provide education . people will understand . and even if they don't understand start arresting the few who don't understand . <no-speech> but for now we should remember that people have gotten in here without others even expecting to . you know there are people Tanzanians who are perhaps able to watch should pardon me there's someone whose education to read the terms and conditions and the criterion on how to participate on debates for example on the community forums and they should pardon me so much I am their fellow community member . but you will find that he has no understanding . he hasn't read . he puts up things and gets banned . the owners there ban a person when they do nonsensical things . he starts to complain that I have been oppressed -- I have been oppressed but later on he will be told it isn't so . look here we said these are the conditions . and they start understanding . and if you get into the community forum now it assures you of (()) . just try doing anything silly today they will remove you . but truly there are serious discussions which reach totally good decisions when they get a good moderator . however now there are those who do not use the community forum but many media . posting provocations hatred and what have you and the work of the moderator is to now check is this true ? there's one I saw someone post the other day about a certain church . people will tell you that is hypocrisy mister . they tell the moderator to take that down sir that person has personal issues with the shepherd . we request you to remove this one and it was truly removed . therefore then that is where we are required to be responsible that is the responsibility of the user those moderating the debates who are allowing certain things to be brought in there . you should consider for example Maalim this issue of Panya Road . I have a friend from Kenya who wanted to come here to go to Zanzibar in January . he says but my friend how come I'm hearing that Panya Road in Dar es Salaam is not a safe place again for people to come . I have postponed till Easter . I ask him why so my friend he says no . if you just Google Dar es Salaam today the first thing you will meet is Panya Road . <no-speech> now they should know that the things we do on social media reflect out country out there and cost us . they are costing us . so now someone else will not think about that then doing so . he just so there . we saw it in Arusha during the time there were chaos . I know two of my friends who have tour companies . they returned cash . there was one who had eight people who were coming . <no-speech> but Arusha was seen to have had bombs and we are the ones reporting now sensational in a way that again you see photos of smashed people and what have you something Maalim if seen by a person who had even paid cash won't come . and then people are complaining that things are tough here is (()) you will have better moments on the second program of the newspapers . I will give you a brief moment for the purpose of this topic . this is where we differ a lot with our colleagues in Kenya when chaos happen like in Westgate and etc . but all their media got to a point and stood together . our limitation in reporting should also get here . exactly . so as not to defame the picture of Kenya International . because they depend on their colleagues for their economy . how come something like this is not available in Tanzania ? now that's what Maalim I'm talking about . its incidents (()) they will be blamed that T_B_C is hiding that . okay these ones are the ones doing well exposing its incidents and the news remains as news . but did you ever see when America was in Iraq an action that was blamed by the whole world ? but the media here . I have never -- I have never seen on C_N_N despite them saying they are the first to know yes ? but I have never seen an American soldier said to be killed by Iraq . (()) just report . and still after all their relatives have been told . again on this desert operation storm the operation <foreign> are not there . and they are the first to know and they usually say but you hear Mister Maalim they usually say but they do not put the details to show the number affected . and they don't release it before the families of those affected for example the dead from war . they will wait until the family is told . and there are their colleagues there photographers with cameras and a lot of press equipment . but they respect the ethics in that you shouldn't release the news until the relatives have been briefed just so they don't see it on television . the news will eventually go out but it has a way of saving the country's interest editorial policy and the station . no doubt . here we have newspapers and if you look and Mwananchi and Citizen they have their editorial policy . there are people who do not agree with them but they will tell you if you do something good which they are required to do now why should you say they have done something bad -- something good ? but if you do something bad I have to talk about it because that is what is news to me . therefore editorial policy also determines what should be reported by the media station . and the editors . that is why I'm saying the editorial policy will guide you on the extent to which you have to report about when we come to big international issues . we won't say that the situation is bad it's unsettling and shops have been closed while you know sometimes some of these things are not true . will they report the truth that -- have you see the French ? ten people have died . okay then %incomplete
T481 guest of honor
T482 we are back -- we are back . after getting that history inside I hope you have gotten the details about our today's topic . old man at the back can you explain to me from what you heard in the past what you heard that changed your view and gave you more understanding about this whole system from analogue to digital ? first of all with analogue we had -- we had no expenditures . and going digital has the meaning that we have -- we have improved . we have -- we have -- we have moved due to the changes in technology . we have gotten to the era of digital use . it's true . but this has caused because it has caused trouble it has caused certain effects to the Tanzanians because people used to use it freely . and now they are using expenses to pay monthly . that is something I have found . okay in that analogue system it was a must for machines to be put -- different machines to be put in one place so as to enable people staying in these areas to access television . but in this digital system we use like what this brother said in the beginning we use satellite . where this is satellite which will have a huge capability being that it can give you a huge sharing capability from province to province . <no-speech> now -- you can see that due to this and this perspective . because even in the villages they were unable to get -- our colleagues were not able to watch T_V due to these old machines . due to this you can see that there was need to move from analogue to digital ? brother I can see that you do agree with me that there was need . from the fact that it is a more worldly thing and Tanzania being one of the countries in this world they are forced to move from analogue to digital . there was no other way . but in that I think in my mind that it has benefits and its own shortcomings too . because during the analogue period . it's only a few channels which are visible to Tanzanians . but after the digital one coming in there are now a lot more . as I can truly see it has helped us very much on one side in that even when I am at home there are programs that I can decide to watch or put for the children which can educate them . but on the second side those broadcasters of those programs . for sure it is problematic watching some programs . especially for us Tanzanian who are still waking up from this sleep . but its benefits -- its big benefits is that it has simplified communication . it has made the world a village . at the moment we can know which things are taking place in our colleagues' countries . which steps have they made ? and we are required to look at where we are and and we are required to look at where we are and where we are required to reach ? it is a principle thing . but if you also check ethically we Tanzanians have our traditions that we do -- it's true -- but you see children changing due to some of the channels you see them watching . it becomes the Tanzania that was over the years . it is said that since this -- since we went digital nine million people in Tanzania have stopped watching television . for what reasons do you think -- the major reasons they have stopped watching television ? I turn a little bit back where have the statistics for the nine million people come from ? <no-speech> I remember going to Songea last year . I went about three to four years ago and other than that there is no television . I have gone to Songea and every house has a joint . there is no cell phone communication unless you go to the hills . but everyone has a T_V that is turned on as wished . now I don't know -- I am not sure of this -- from this research I don't have -- I don't know how the research was done ? (()) at first there was nothing like this -- provinces are getting the know-how and I wanted to talk about this issue then now this happened a photo appeared and my son might see someone kissing his companion . if he sees the father watching he hides first for it to pass . the truth should now come to the things - that's the setting . that you check those photos that are aired to children when you're available . the (()) you've said my brother is where something presses it and now it appears while you're all there . there appears on the screen someone who -- who has stripped -- what you're saying is true . that is the reason T_C_R_A got so much worried about the content which will be aired through these channels and through this digital system -- yes -- do you see that ? therefore this worry is not just on you . but then has this system brought about content ? that is the question . it has brought content that is needed to the villages . what I can say is that it has of course brought content . but to the modern generation that is the old generation as it grows -- as it grows it is becoming a to hard to control . that is the meaning you will find on we have come to -- we have moved from analogue and entered digital . we have woken up from slumber as you will find boys -- a very young child can control and operate it properly than his father . it therefore becomes very hard to be able to control him on the channels he shouldn't watch . you will find a father telling their child please help me on this thing how do I open it ? you will see -- you will fully see children now -- that is they are modernized to a point that their parents are unable to know how they can control them personally (()) to say in that if you do this this will happen . I don't know then come and check me over here . yes mother my friends are also doing this -- they are doing that . I (()) even check . therefore I will not be able to but if asked -- I think things have become more open after this digital thing came in . everything %incomplete and I don't know I'm not very sure if T_C_R_A are the ones in charge of overseeing telephone reports . because it's very surprising to -- to manage the T_V issue and then leave the telephones open . because a student in school has the ability to look at any picture he wishes to in the world . of any type should it be bad or good and they are mostly bad . because there are those who have modern phones at the moment . therefore I think if they are the ones involved in also overseeing then they should also check the telephone side . because there are bigger effects in phones than on the T_V . it is programs here . putting channels in groups . like the children ones . these are required for children and families . these ones are for the father and mother . that is there should be groups which -- you should block then . so every time you're where someone's burning you'll find yourself checking out things . if you come to that place you'll also be forced to get out . run . that is you shouldn't check and go away or get inside -- therefore you should check programs and allow certain types for a certain duration I think something like that . you know if a child discovers there's something you're hiding from him that is father is hiding something he must look for it . the truth is that the basic thing is being able to educate them . at the moment Tanzania has become one of the countries that has grown in technology . it is educating the youth -- the children that these certain things are bad and good . he will know from how you're educating him . but if you hide it he will know that father is hiding something . what is going on here ? there are people who will just hide . they are keen that ahh mother I don't know why I was watching this thing right now and it's not -- he doesn't want to watch a certain part . as you heard from our delegates for the day we have talked about many issues from their perspectives . but what stands out seems to be that education has not been sufficient specifically in relation to this whole digital system . I don't know if it's a draw ? yes it is . there is need for education to be given to control some of the things being screened on our T_Vs . yes indeed . especially to the children . I remember in the past this was development . in the past if you put a song on in a rental house as a tenant the rent would go up . but currently everyone puts on songs . they should remember us in the villages and bring this awakening to the house of darkness . and those watching should also remember if they want to give their opinions they also should visit out Facebook page . so that they are able to give their opinions on topics such as this and other top topics . they even get maps there . you will know tomorrow where we're leaving to . so that you can go to the bus stage and stand there . we will pick you from there . it's very true Maasai . for now let's drop people off as we return and we will start with our second topic for the day . stay glued do not move . does spewing slanderous and sarcastic words by the man to a woman because of rejection help in reducing the hurt ? as men I remove myself from there (()) I am a man who perseveres I can't say that (()) . have we ever seen such things happening in our families ? is there anyone who has ever witnessed ? yes that is true it happens when you get into a relationship with someone and then disappears then you must give them a few words here and there . here and there ? yes . tell her but at first you took her for a nice person -- at first you took her for a nice person -- you're also changing after she changed on you -- I change on her too -- a bigger percentage of us men become very hurtful for example if a man happens to walk into a woman -- the wife he will make noise and there will be unmanageable chaos . if a woman happens to walk into her husband then you will hear her saying so-and-so's dad let's leave . they will go handle the case at home and close it . but a man can't handle it easily . I mean really it will be total chaos . it helps us because just include me %incomplete even though I have never done that you know . it helps us in reducing the pain . why doesn't it help ? when you consider your ego as a man . it doesn't need the person to lower the problem my friend . especially as a man this particular line is what teaches you my friend . you might find yourself doing something that you are not aware of . but girls sometimes have a negative perception that -- he's looking at the bad one -- he's looking at the bad one do you really love her ? don't you want to be with her . but she replies to you that it's not the case . I mean you've really tried not to fail and then give her a negative implication -- at that point everyone has made their own different interpretation that as you tell the girl that you love her the guy expects the girl to say yes or get a wise response for the moment . but for the guys where you have feelings for a girl and tells you she loves you it shouldn't be contentious . but it depends on how much prepared a man himself was prepared . perhaps he was expecting a response that is the response that he expected to get . now if you give him a bad answer he will start saying do you think you are the only one ? now if I come to you it means that I have loved you . now it starts -- he starts spewing hurting words to a point that angers you . does this situation happen in a certain environment or can it happen anywhere you meet ? <no-speech> your honor in the middle there . this is what I can say -- this looks into the times because in the past if a guy wanted a fellow lady . it can take a lot of time . they could be in the process for even a year . but as things are at the moment what they call democracy in love is not there . perseverance -- perseverance is absent . that someone wants something at that time and gets it at the very same time . to an old person you will first find that -- like I was often told by my grandfather really he didn't find a wife first what he went to do first was a job . <no-speech> he would work until he takes her . I need this and this and they would send the elders . now rejection was hard when they sent the elders because of that . we're currently at the bus stage here . the heart can change and say my sister this and that . now you're whole mind has changed with your brains . now you should expect a response in rejection . you have aimed for a response in acceptance . now when the shocker come ahh that's impossible . <no-speech> my friend -- you are not worth I knew you will spoil it I mean you start saying shocking things -- shocking ? but since he drilled it .
T46 DC stops wedding before 21 days it has been written Kennedy Kisula, Linda. it has been published 22 September 2016. the religious leaders of Linda district they are have not being allowed to preside over weeding without making it public for 21 days before so that if there is mistakes can be detected as well as controlling early marriage of students. head of Linda district Shaibu Ndemanga said that yesterday when he was discussing with the county workers of Majengo and Mtama in the working meeting. he said in the Nahuka village a pupil of standard six was arrested when he was being marred off and that she was arrested, but after wards she escaped with her husband. he was added that later she surrendered herself over to the police and demanded that she is marred and stressed that she does not want to go to school. "her parents and the community decided to train her when she comes to the police that she does not want to go to school, here you shorten your life instead of moving forward," she said comments and asked the practitioners to monitor the reports of religious leaders who have marital states permits. she said that it is easy for them to know the wedding has how many attributes to be finally passed, then the religious leaders to tie it. the Administrative Secretary of Lindi district, Thomas Safari said many times the Islamic religion they use their own one book of certificate instead of the government and he ordered the government certificate and religious certificate to be used to remove disturbance.
T408 in-laws quarrel a drunkard, a tormentor of their sister. this kind of spectacle has happened in this area when a drunk man was found in a bar with his in-laws who beat him up badly, claiming that he had married a lady whom he loved from nearby village and with whom he went to school four years ago. "even though that lady was strongly warned against marrying the drunkard who was known for his addiction to excessive drinking, the lady totally refused to listen to her family members and asked them to cease interfering with her personal life," said our reporter. their marriage had been peaceful for a while without any complication since their union. moreover that couple had been blessed with one son. however, things changed two years ago. for unknown reasons, their home became a theater of confrontations every time. according to the reporter, sometimes those confrontations sparked a war within that couple. however, things got out of hand one grim day when their impasse turned into a fierce battle between them. "it was during this war, when a man threw his wife breaking her hand," explained the reporter. it was after this war, that the woman packed up her belongings and returned to her parents and her brothers took her to hospital for treatment. this event angered her brothers who decided to search for the man whom they intended to teach a lesson for intimidating their sister. since the man is a drunkard, they found him within a very short time in one club drinking alcohol and confronted him. "so, after trying to kill our sister have you come here to celebrate?" one of them fumed." "today you will discover that she has people who are able to protect her," he said. together, they began to beat him up mercilessly regardless of being at a public place. however, the man was rescued by customers who intervened and urged the brothers to leave him alone. and Kimani Wa Njuguna.
T488 there is a high possibility that Kenya may be allowed to grow GMO maize. by James Kariuki possibly Kenya may start to plant Genetically Modified Maize (GMO) if the trials that are continuing will get approval from the National Bio-Safety Authority (NBA). this development is a result of the issuance of permits by the NBA to the Kenya agricultural and research organization (KALRO) and another non-government organization, Africa Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF), to lead the national plan on the growing of GMO maize in the whole country. but the head of the NBA Doctor Willy Tonui warned that those trials are to get maize that will be tried first if they are safe for Kenyans to eat or have a poison that is feared causes the disease of cancer. earlier, KALRO and AATF asked for a permit to grow that maize and sell in the market but they were denied until when government researchers will do more trials to find out if that maize is safe for use and also doesn't damage the environment. Doctor Tonui said the permit will be given after the environmental authority in the country has done a proper investigation on all farms, that will be used and finally to give the permit. the NBA said that GMO maize needs more research, and warned that the maize will be planted on the farms belonging to the Kenya plant health inspectorate (KEPHIS) under tight security and added that possibly the permit, may be removed if the GMO researchers go against those rules. the NBA permit was received with rejoicing by supporters of GMO maize because possibly, crop production may increase and help Kenyans deal with hunger but those who believe they are harmful to health are opposed. in his statement, Doctor Tonui said that the GMO maize will be studied more to inspect its structure and to ensure they have no chemicals and are safe for human consumption, or to ban that maize if it will be found with dangerous chemicals. earlier, KALRO and AATF asked for permission to plant seeds and to distribute them in the whole country, saying they are safe and their research has shown that Kenya needs to distribute the knowledge of strengthening planting of maize through scientific means in order to deal with the problem of hunger.
T489 <no-speech> but I'd also feel that the patient should have stamped it himself because now there's no one attending to him about the rubber stamp %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> it's like -- it's like as I tell you now we had to stay there until seven o'clock in the night . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> that's why the patient decided to put stamp on his own because he was in pain and there was no one to attend to him from his family's side . mmhm . <no-speech> so he decided that even if he was to die then it should be on him . <no-speech> the old man's job himself . <no-speech> mm now what do we do ? he rubber stamped it so we started the task of looking for Kenyatta and don't you know getting this thing in Kenyatta hospital what is it called bed mm is usually problematic ? <no-speech> mm mmhm . <no-speech>
T409 drunkenness is very bad. see the story of the daughter of a prominent person who has done a bad thing because of drunkenness: Richard Bukos drunkenness is bad! that's what you can say about what happened to the child of one prominent person who lives in Masaki who found herself injured in the waters of the Indian Ocean in the Coco area of Dar last Saturday. before that incident, it's claimed that the lady, whose name isn't immediately known, stayed up all night clubbing in one club at the beach with her companions. when it became morning, it's claimed that, in order to reduce the feeling of drunkenness in her head, she decided to go swimming to feel better. the source who witnessed the incident spoke to our photographer saying that, at the time the beauty was going to swim that's when she fell into the hands of one giant who was exercising at the corner of the beach where she also met with Azam FC players, who were doing exercises, when things went wrong. "at the time she followed those players, the Bajaj owners' radios had been switched on playing loud music, she started dancing, when those guys saw it, they increased the volume and put on Davido's song of Aye, what! for her so she got very excited, the way she was gyrating and the clothes she wore, she thoroughly confused Azam players who were looking at her with eyes wide open salivating," said that source. after having made those players possessed, the lady followed one giant who was aside and begged him to teach her how to swim, the fellow took a car tire and immersed her in the sea where he began with boastfulness to teach her while they dived to show there was a dirty game that was going on.
T544 coffee hyp beverage
T405 a form four student at Mbeya collectively beaten by teachers. Rashid Mkwinda her clothes torn, a male teacher put his fingers in her private parts acts of sexual violence and violence against girls have become increasingly common in the presence of institutions for the protection of women's rights and the establishment of gender gadgets in the country's police centers. a 17-year-old girl, (name withheld) studying at Kata secondary school in Mbeya has been confronted and her inner clothes torn and punished severely by four teachers of the school. the incident reported in a small police station at Mbalizi in Mbeya by the investigations book number MBI/IR/967/2016 and placed on notice number MBI/R/2653/2016 report is reported to involve four teachers including the head of the school and three teachers. speaking while in great pain at the Special Hospital of Ifisi where she was hospitalized for treatment, the student said she was called by the disciplinary teacher who she mentioned by the name of Neema Mwaikenda who was with the head of the school who she mentioned by the name of Mariamu Mwanisenga and a male teacher who she mentioned by the name the name of Adili. she said the teachers began punishing her with lots of canes while ripping her clothes when a male teacher in the name of Adili began to seize her private parts. 'when I was being punished by all the teachers, this male teacher started touching me down there, asking me to mention my men, as I had my legs together they went on attacking me with canes and kicks and sticks,' said the student. she said the reasons she was being punished was skipping school and one day when she was at school she was shown by the teachers sticks and told that the sticks would end in her body and she was afraid to come to school for three days. she explains that she had come to school where she was met with the occurrence of being beaten by four teachers until she broke loose from the teachers and ran to the street and hid. "I broke loose from the teachers and fled to a house neighboring the school hiding till late and later went home, the following day my mother and sister later took me and brought me to the hospital," she said. the journalist came to the school where the student studies for the purpose of meeting the school's leadership where the deputy of the school in the same name of Mwansanga refused to explain anything. "I do not know anything first, I am not the school spokesman, so I do not know anything about the information you need," replied the deputy of the school and left. according to the Regional Education Officer Charles Mwakalila, the punishment given to the student is serious since there are disciplinary proceedings that a student should be beaten with three strokes and no more than six strokes or alternatives. "the punishment given to her was great, we will follow up and the violators will receive disciplinary action," said Mwakalila. the Police Commander of Mbeya District Dhahiri Kidavashari when he was asked about the incident he claimed it had not reached his office and that he was currently active in the Chunya District and when he arrives at the office he would follow and take legal steps to the parties. earlier, Mbeya Regional Administrator Secretary Mariamu Mtunguja who arrived at the hospital where the student was hospitalized said she had looked at the student and saw how blood was lying on her hips and thighs. Mtunguja said that the act done by these teachers is unkind that should not be tolerated and that once it is confirmed he will ensure that disciplinary action is taken on the teachers. the Nursing Assistant at Ifisi Special Hospital Elimati Sanga said the student was taken to hospital on July 21 at 7:00 am where she was treated and admitted due to injuries and bleeding disorders in the hips and thighs. 'she has been attacked on her thighs, her blood and her ears are not good enough because of the strokes, she continues with the treatment here in the hospital,' said Sanga.
T406 sister hyp sibling morning
T407 if you sleep completely, you will miss out on a rare occurrence. by Leonard Onyango. Kenyans who love to sleep soundly until sunrise might miss out on a rare opportunity to see five planets which have been sighted every dawn since January 20th, this year. Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn have been sighted every dawn between 5.30 and 6.00 in the morning all over the world. according to Jane Platt from National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), anyone can be able to see those planets without using special glasses or telescope. "the planets look like stars but they are brighter (they are shiny) compared to other normal stars," said Platt through a report that was uploaded to the NASA's website, www.nasa.gov. this is the first time for these planets to be seen together in a period of the past 10 years. this means that those who miss out on seeing those planets before February 20th, will have to wait until July 2020 when they will be sighted again. on January 28th, the world witnessed those planets shining together with the moon in the morning. according to NASA, if you wake up too early, you might miss out on seeing Mercury which usually rises late and also sets first. between those five planets, Venus is the brightest compared to the others. on February 10th, those planets will be seen closer to each other via a distance in degrees from one planet to another. those who will use telescopes to look at those planets will succeed to see four big moons surrounding planet Jupiter. those moons, Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto were seen for the first time by Galileo in the year 1609. the institution has already released photos showing the view of those planets every dawn between January 20th and February 20th. the moon of this world will be 'moving' from one planet to another. on the dawn of February 27th and 28th, the moon will be close to Jupiter and on February 1st, it is expected to be close to Mars. on February 3rd, it will be seen together with Saturn and Venus will shine together with the moon on February 5th. finally, Mercury will shine together with the moon on February 6th. for the planets to be well seen, the weather conditions must be clear without clouds and the viewer is supposed to stand on a raised area. "the person who wants to view the planets well, doesn't have a choice but to stand on a raised area and direct his eyes towards the southern sky," said Platt. those planets were last seen together between December 2004 and January 2005. Platt says that Mercury and Venus might not be visible in some of the areas in July 2020 when those planets become visible again. scientists are saying that those planets are usually visible after 10 years because that is the time when all the five planets are in line when rotating the sun. the NASA equipment has ever explored all those planets that are visible. "we are proud of the high level American technology that has helped us understand a lot about planets," said Jim Green, the director of Planet Science Faculty at NASA. according to Green, the planets Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn are the only ones that can be viewed without using glasses or telescope from earth. loonyango@ke.nationmedia.com
T403 a dream you dream alone is only a dream . <no-speech> a dream you dream together to take into reality alone . <no-speech> the chairperson of the private sector Tanzania T_P_S_F Esther Mkwizu has said that meeting will help the girls with strength and the women with dreams to talk about the experience and the success they got alongside helping other women in the country to move away from poverty . and the time has now come for Tanzanians themselves for (()) time in our positions to identify each other to look for each other and know each other to be able to network and push our country forward so that we move ahead for the purpose of being able sing about the women we call unsung heroes . <no-speech> still read many pictures and you will see (()) being put (()) . <no-speech> therefore I am grateful also for being given this chance to come receive an award . Tanzania has recognized that women are able women are advanced but the girls are more advanced we're hitting the road from Dar es Salaam I am Fred Mwanjala Channel Ten .
T261 where does that confidence come from? July 05, 2012 unfortunately, for several weeks now after having another doctors' strike in the country, there are Tanzanians who support that strike. there are those who support it on grounds that services in the health sector needs to be improved, but there are those who support it believing there are political benefits that they can get either individually or with their associations. whatever the case, we believe that there are no reasons that will convince a critical patient who needs the services of the doctors, to endure suspension of health services as a way of supporting the doctors' strike to proceed forth. if only the groups supporting the doctors' strike could get to the wards in some of the hospitals in the country to get the opinions of the patients as whether the strike should continue or not, without a doubt the patients would want that strike to be halted, soonest possible. unfortunately, those giving the opinion indicating support for the strike are not sick and maybe have no patients who are affected by the strike. they can't know a patient's misery failing to get the services of the doctors. on our side, we collaborate with all the patients to request doctors to return to work, to save the lives of their fellow human beings whose lives cannot be used as a ransom to fulfill any other claims. it is against the law and humanity to force implementation of certain clams using someone else's life. the medical profession gives doctors the right to protect human life through treatment whenever they fall ill. it is not just, for patients' illnesses to be used as a 'shield' for doctors to compel the government to pay them the dues they deserve. in simple terms is that, striking on patients is cruelty against human rights. let's ask ourselves, where does that courage to strike on patients come from? our advise is that the press should head to hear the opinions of the patients instead of pursuing to hear the activists or politicians who primarily don't know the discomfort or pain of lacking treatment. we still ask ourselves, where does this confidence of the doctors to continue sabotaging the patients not for a few hours but for several weeks come from? is it courage to claim interests only, is it because of improving health services in the country alone? but if it's about improving healthcare services and doctors' needs, if those requests are met, will we be able to restore the lost lives because of the strike?
T522 <no-speech> there are various types of cooperatives starting from cooperative societies for livestock produce societies for savings and loans SACCOs and other societies depending on peoples' needs in the concerned areas . <no-speech> since the nineteen sixties Tanzania has had various cooperative societies but most have been cooperative societies for farmers of various crops . (()) . today the Maridhawa journal focuses on the concept of livestock cooperatives that is not very much mentioned despite the fact that it exists and is still working in various parts of the country . and to start off let's get a little definition on this concept from the cooperatives officer at the office of the Provincial Commissioner for Arusha Mister Peter Lasuai . the goal especially of to -- to starting these societies is that -- I think that they will help them in their livestock . with a particular focus that we ensure that they initiate the projects that they have livestock we ensure that whether on the side of the Maasai -- Maasai land that they have many livestock but their benefit -- they do not get the benefits . let's say like year -- the past years they were faced with the challenge of weather and livestock died . and it favored that we start those societies so as to issue a procedure for them after they have been in the society it means they can -- some of the livestock they can sell and be able to take care of other issues either by buying food and helping these children -- their children to go to school . <misc> as we have been able to hear from the cooperatives officer that there is one policy for cooperatives whereby the one for the year two thousand and two recognizes that the basis of all societies is to lift members to free themselves according to the activities they do . <no-speech> Tanzania is said to be at a very broad opportunity of developing the livestock sector . if it having more than sixty million hectares of pasture land with the capability of keeping twenty million cows . but however this sector has not yet been developed and thus fails to benefit the ordinary livestock keepers from changing their lives and contributing to the national income . <no-speech> Longido District in Arusha Province where its residents are livestock keepers of the Maasai community is among the areas with high numbers of livestock . and here its citizens understand well the concept of livestock cooperatives where Ally Marandu the Chairman of this cooperative in Tingatinga village says it is an matter of great benefit to be in a cooperative . we decided to start a cooperative society with ten ten people in each village in order to unite our cooperative society in Tingatinga Ward we get in each village ten people who are members of a cooperative society . <no-speech> and we continued that way we got ten people each one from Miriani Tingatinga village in Lasinya we got members in total thirty . <no-speech> we are determined to start with a contribution of five thousand as entrance fees and ten thousand shillings per month in order to increase the funds of our cooperative society . <no-speech> later we saw that raising ten thousand for each member was becoming a problem . we decided to each contribute one cow in like among nine members of the cooperative . <no-speech> (()) thirty people among us were in agreement started our contribution for that contribution we have started with the thirty cows and here right now you see me behind here there are cattle standing behind me these are thirty cows from the contribution of members of the Tingatinga Ward cooperative . <no-speech>
T129 bishop warns the people who like taking loans the Pentecostal (FPCT) bishop Singida branch in the city, Doctor Paulo Samwel, has influenced believers and the general public, to avoid the tendency to borrow loans that are not able to repay them in time. he claims the tendency to repay loans on time contributes to a major disadvantage, including escaping the city unwillingly. bishop doctor Samwel has given this caution when giving his talks at close of a special one week conference ceremony attended by the church female members. he said the experience clearly shows that believers and other people have a tendency to borrow, and their lives are dominated by fear and anxiety at all times. I and my colleague pastor Boniface, in short, we are tired of many complaints concerning unpaid loans. my fellow believers especially those who have a tendency to borrow, while borrowing you are two borrower and lender when the borrower fails to return the loan you start running to the people. no, do not bother people, settle yourselves, explained Doctor Samwel. stressing, he said that it is better for a believer or any citizen to sleep hungry than to rush and borrow when he does not have the ability to repay the loan. my friends loans have many consequences, and others are even more serious. there are some borrowers who take their lives because of credit, there are those who reach the decision to hide under the bed fearing the claim. if you ask a certain family member where he is, he will be answer he traveled but he is under the bed, he has explained more. in addition, Bishop Doctor Samwel said there were some believers or non-believers, seeing a person has been given a big economy, start forming an infidelity relationship. their problem is they can borrow. before you go borrowing, decide first if you have the ability to repay the loan on time. if you do not have avoid completely borrowing to keep living peacefully and calmly, and your respect will continue to grow, said the bishop. at the same time, Bishop Doctor Paul has asked debtors, including from credit providers, to pay the debts in advance to maintain civilization and respect in the eyes of the community. by Nathaniel Limu
T14 40 students impregnated in Lindi written by Kennedy Kisula, Lindi published: 04 October 2016 40 students in secondary and primary schools in Lindi district in that province have become pregnant from January to September this year. the head of Lindi district, Shaibu Ndemanga has said that when he was speaking with 'HabariLeo' in his office in this town. he said that several steps have been taken against those responsible for the pregnancies, parents who failed to cooperate with the relevant authorities. the steps including taking to court the involved, to investigate more on the problem through a committee that has been established. Ndemanga mentioned the primary schools as Mihongoni with class seven pupils, one class seven pupil in Mvuleni, a class five pupil in Nyaugara. other primary schools he mentioned are Luwaleyuko with a class six pupil, a class six pupil in Mgeyo as well as Kineng'ene and Ng'apa. moreover, he mentioned secondary schools whose female students were academically affected as a result of pregnancy as Lindi secondary school, Madangwa Mtama, Namupa Kiwala, Mkonge, Angaza. he said in Mchinga, Mbarawa, Kineng'ene and Naugoni several steps have already been taken some cases are still with the police and others have already been presented in court. he said some parents fail to cooperate and to agree in homes and some of the accused escape to Mozambique.
T15 did JPM establish a corruption judiciary or did he found it? Elias Msuya, citizen, emsuya@mwananchi.co.tz among the promises that Doctor John Magufuli promised during the general elections campaign when vying for presidency, is to initiate corruption courts to deal with corruption, theft and bribes in the country. apart giving that promise during campaigns, President Magufuli talked about the issue during the ultimate day of the new year's Courts week in Dar es Salaam earlier this year, requiring the Chief Justice Othman Chande not to wait for parliament to approve the bill of instituting a corruption's court instead the court to commence work as quickly as possible. he said, delays in the commencement of that court provides an opportunity for the corrupt individuals to continue wrecking the country and make it poor, yet it has enough resources to run the state without depending on funds from donors which he said have conditions. President Magufuli insisted on the importance of instituting that court that he wants to be a section of the Supreme Court as the case of lands and business courts. while closing the commemorations, the president said his intention is to see the country having a good economy that will benefit every Tanzanian from the available resources rather than being owned by few individuals. recently, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa announced the launch of that court when presenting the estimates of revenues and expenditures of his office to the parliament in Dodoma. "concerning that promise of establishing a special corruption court, I would like to inform your parliament that the government has initiated the Bribery and Corruption Division of the Supreme Court, which will commence work in July 2016," Majaliwa said. the prime minister also said the government will strengthen the office of the director of public prosecution and the office of the attorney general so that together they can accelerate the delivery of justice to the cases that will be presented to that court. speaking about the cost of that court, Majaliwa said in an effort to deal with the shortage of courtrooms and resources at all levels, President Magufuli has implemented his promise that he gave on February 4, of providing 12.3 billion shillings for purposes of developing the courts. he said that move has enabled the court to proceed with renovation and construction of the court at various levels together with purchase of equipment. Majaliwa said the government intends to reduce the nuisance from many court proceedings so that citizens get justice in time. "the government has also improved and increased efficiency in investigations and conducting of proceedings by separating the investigation and conduction of proceedings roles," said Majaliwa. Majaliwa said the leadership of the court has scheduled a program for the court's judges to have a target number of cases they are expected to rule over every year. in the process of constructing a court, the constitution of the United Republic is the basis for the establishment of state authority as government, (Article 34) court (Article 107 A) and the parliament of the United Republic (Article 62). the judicial department is instituted by the constitution and give the mandate of delivering justice when resolving and determining various issues it has been authorized to address. there are different types of courts, for instance those directly established by the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, Court of Appeal of the United Republic, High Court of the United Republic of Tanzania, High Court of Zanzibar and the Special Constitutional Court of the United Republic. there are also courts that are being initiated by law which include resident magistrates' courts of 1984: the resident magistrates' courts, district courts and the initial courts. the third type is special courts that are initiated under a special law to attend to specific issues, Labor Courts, Children's Court, High Court of Commerce and Lands High Court. nevertheless, when the government announced the commencement of that court, it has explained that the court was already there but its performance was crippled. that court was instituted in accordance with the Economic Sabotage Act of the year 1984, being a few years after the Kagera war which disrupted the economy causing a shortage of commodities in the shops. talking about that court recently, Singida East parliamentarian (Chadema), Tundu Lissu said, that court has been in the country since 1984. "President Magufuli needs to be reminded that this country has had the corruption court since 1984, that is 31 years ago, when Edward Sokoine was the Prime Minister. the formulated law is called "the law of controlling economic sabotage crime". "that law together with other things, constituted the special court of economic sabotage, the corrupt and others," says Lissu. Lissu says that law is present to date and its violation is addressed by the Institute of Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCB). nevertheless, he says with the current situation, PCB has been derailed by the ineffective judicial system that prevents it to take a case in court without getting permission from the attorney general. the vice chairperson of Chadema, Professor Abdallah Safari has applauded the decision to establish that court saying that corruption cases will be given the weight they deserve. "the problem I'm foreseeing is in big cases being taken to Resident's Magistrate Courts. when the law of economic sabotage was formulated, the Prime Minister at the time was Sokoine and the President was Julius Nyerere, it was only the High Court that was mandated to hear those cases because they believed it's only the judges who have the ability to preside over them," says Professor Safari. "later, they came to assign the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) the responsibility of taking those cases to lower courts. the corruption suspects have great potential, they can bribe even his entire salary without being shaken." Professor Safari who is among the legal experts in the country says it is important to respect the court so as to eliminate loopholes for bribes. "in those days, a single case was presided over by three judges. today such a big case is presided over by one magistrate. how can they fail to bribe him? "it is important that we change that court's status," says Professor Safari.
T16 that with a lot of desire because it's one of the the major departments that Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta has complained about for weakening the fight against corruption . and that again was talked about when that judge was being sworn in . just a day after that judge was confirmed unanimously by Kenyan national parliament President Kenyatta wanted that chief justice to reduce the accumulation of the cases filed in the courts inside that country as fast as possible . well listeners to discuss these in depth we are with our Nairobi Kenya reporter Kennedy Wandera . at the same time Kenyan human rights activist Mister Eric Karisa and my colleague here in the studio B_M_J Murithi . first and foremost Murithi please explain to us just briefly who is this judge especially David Maraga . <no-speech> yes thank you Sunday Shomari . Judge Maraga ahh to say the truth he has a long history -- very long because he is sixty-four years of age . that's why I said just briefly yes . well now let's see why he has reached the place his is in how he arrived there as we look briefly at who he is . he is sixty-four years of age and in the Kenyan constitution he will not apply again to be the chief justice after finishing this his term because he is reaching seventy years . after five years . then now he will also be the fourteenth chief justice in the republic of Kenya . and at the same he is a believer in the faith known as Seventh Day Adventist . a high ranked job like chief justice people want to know what your religious faith is . he will be -- he has been a leader or he oversaw the committee that removed one of the high court judges Joseph Mutava . and maybe Sunday I say because our reporter from Nairobi is on the telephone line and he will explain many more . the issue that have created anxiety or caused a debate in the country in Kenya is the clothe which he wore the day that he was being sworn in yesterday which is the clothe that used to be worn by judges in the old days . of colonization . yes -- yes before the swearing in of judges which now this chief justice that left he brought different clothes that were green in color but this judge said I am returning to the old clothes . firstly . yes -- yes and that English cap . now that matter have caused conversations but those maybe we will talked about another time . very well I definitely thank B_M_J Murithi as I take this chance to welcome Kennedy Wandera from Nairobi Kenya . please tell us in depth the steps that have taken place until this judge was found because like many people are saying this process was not easy . Kennedy . yes this processes has not been easy because many Kenyans were expecting that a supreme court judge would come from among the judges in their midst they have been among the judges who have been led by the former -- retired Willy Mutunga including Jackton Ojwang and Smoking Wanjala . those are who many Kenyans expected but when they arrived before the -- of that commission of judicial service it seems that that commission had a different direction the way we reported yesterday . reports were there that there were divisions especially among those commissioners of the commission . creating different sides that there is a side that want him -- him Al Nashir Visram and others wanting Msagha Mbogholi but because of that misunderstanding its reported that now they said that it's better to take this David Maraga who now has the capability and experience of ensuring that he preserves the court and to give it the leadership that is needed especially to succeed the former -- the retired Judge Willy Mutunga . but this process also has not been simple maybe Kenyans who know it's a process which past through all the constitutional steps . especially after the president giving it thumps up or putting the signature first the parliament makes sure it has been past so that the president signs . but his presence now is an open indication that now officially we have found the second chief justice under the new constitution that was approved in the year two thousand and ten . thank you a lot Kennedy Wandera . likewise then please %incomplete
T17 readers report, critique and demand rights. Ndimara Tegambwage happy new year, readers of this column. by these greetings, I bring to you the opinions of your three fellow readers who wrote to me. enjoy reading them through meditation. one gives a report, the second one builds a topic on human rights and the third one corrects what this newspaper erred in, in his view. this is what I promised at the beginning of this column, that some of the important opinions of the readers will be published in length so as to promote understanding, provoke debates and urge those concerned to take action. save the life of this woman: one reader has requested me to invite those concerned to go save one woman whose husband has locked her up for more than three years now, she's in pain and she has started becoming pale. isn't this the work of journalists? things are happening silently without you unearthing and exposing them, you especially in your column. "there are those who will continue suffering and even die," she explains. community editor, now that is the report to you and the invitation. there's a guy who has locked his wife indoors and she's sick. it is more than three years. she's emaciated to just bones. the person's looks are destroyed. "it pains to see her," she writes through a text message. as neighbors we have tried to give reports in different areas but there is none found to help her. there is no action that has been taken up to today (28th December, 2016). this woman is in a bad state. her husband (she mentions his name) is a retired director from the ministry and the woman suffering and exploited was a servant in the court. "the husband doesn't even want the wife's siblings to come and assist their sibling," explains the phone number's owner that sent the message. "I am sure of what I am talking of. these are my neighbors. there's a time I was even giving them milk from sympathy. journalists, make noise to save this woman's life," explains the reporter. the reporter has requested not to have her phone number in the newspaper. "but if you are coming with police and administrators, use that number to reach me so that we go and rescue this woman's life. it is here in Wazo, Kinondoni village, Dar es Salaam. the rights of Ngorongoro residents: editor, please discuss the right to live in equality on the legal front for the community living inside Ngorongoro Conservancy especially after being denied the right to land and agriculture. the right to live is the most important one among all human rights. this right is referenced under section 14 of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania. the right to live has been recognized also in the international rights for citizenship and politics. the violation of this right is together with the continuation of the existence of a ban on farming inside Ngorongoro conservancy. the ban on subsistence farming has caused difficulties in lives and deaths. read about Professor Issa Shivji and Wilbert Kapinga (1998). in their book, Maasai rights in Ngorongoro Conservation Area, they write that denying Ngorongoro locals the right to farm is violating their basic right to live. the 1975 reforms on the Ngorongoro Conservancy laws are the ones which banned farming inside the conservancy something that violates the basic right to live. the result of the denial of this right is the presence of hunger, malnutrition among children as it has ever been verified among 29 children from Ngorongoro admitted in Endulen Hospital with one of them dying. community editor, I would also like you to discuss the conservation law that violates the country's constitution, the international agreement for economic, societal and cultural rights of the year 1966 and the African agreement on human rights and people rights of the year 1981. Supeet Kimarari, Ngorongoro, 0764949482, Morogoro is not an archdiocese: since when did Morogoro diocese become an archdiocese and Bishop Telesphory Mkude become an archbishop (Citizen, 26th December 2016, page 4)? you shouldn't mislead readers. the archdioceses of the Catholic church in the country are Dar es Salaam, Songea, Tabora, Mwanza, Arusha and Dodoma. their heads are the ones referred to as archbishops. in Morogoro, it is Morogoro diocese led by Bishop Telesphory Mkude. this one is under the archdiocese of Dar es Salaam that is led by the Archbishop Polycarp Cardinal Pengo. Ezekiel Issaka, Haubi village, Kondoa. the writer is an editor of Community and the Citizen Communications Limited press the newspapers publishers of The Citizen, Sportsman and this one. for more questions and requests about the press, get in touch with him on telephone: 0713614872 or 0763670229, email, ndimara@yahoo.com or ntegambwage@tz.nationmedia.com.
T10 TRA officer missed going to prison by a whisker. written by Veronica Mheta, Arusha. published 14 September 2016 a Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) officer in Arusha, Wanguluke Shilinde, was nearly going to prison for six years after being found with two offenses of persuading to be given a bribe together with receiving a bribe of three million shillings from Lachan Tanzania Company Ltd. that officer has paid a fine of one million shillings and was set free. he was required to pay a fine of 500,000 shillings for every offense or go to prison, he has chosen to pay the fine. presiding Judge of Arusha Resident Magistrate Court, Augustino Rwizile when reading that judgment today has said, the court has found Shilinde with the offense after being satisfied that he was found with bribery money, which was presented by the institution for Preventing and Fighting Corruption (Takukuru), hidden in his socks. he says, the accused requested a bribe from an employee of the company, Lucy Magufa, in order to make a tax estimate for her company, which claimed she was required to pay 75 million shillings, but he claimed to have the ability to reduce that amount of money to three million shillings. for more information read HabriLeo tomorrow's version.
T11 leaders are ordered to look for those without toilets. written by Lucas Raphael, Igunga. published: 28th November 2016. the local government of Igunga District, Tabora Region has given one week to the heads of villages and wards to arrest people who will be found without toilets in their residential areas. the statement was issued by the acting administrative secretary of the district who is also an officer, Shadrack Kalekayo on behalf of Ivunga District Commissioner, John Mwaipopo while addressing the public at a public meeting held in Ziba Ward in the district. the acting administrative secretary said every household is needed to focus on the whole issue of health including having good toilets and also maintaining washing hands the moment they are from the toilet to prevent infectious diseases. however, he said in addition to the government providing education for its citizens about having toilets, there are some of the citizens who continue to ignore government directives and said such people should be arrested and taken to court. "village and ward officials, I ask you to listen carefully and am giving seven days to ensure that you arrest all those who defied digging toilets and take them to court," said Calice. Igunga District health officer, John Masesa said when environments are polluted it causes contagious diseases including tuberculosis, diarrhea, cholera, malaria, paralysis, polio and worms, where he said that 80 percent of these diseases are due to environmental pollution.
T12 Professor Lipumba claims Maalim Seif is a traitor. Rashid Mkwinda explains the reasons for his resignation. claims he once pursued Doctor Salim to contest in CUF and he refused. at one time former chairman of the people's party CUF who wrote a resignation letter, Professor Ibrahimu Lipumba has come out and showed clearly that, he once pursued the former Secretary General of the OAU Doctor Salim Ahmed Salim to contest for the presidency of CUF but he refused because he was a faithful member of CCM. Professor Lipumba made those statements, during a special interview that he did through the power breakfast programme which was being aired by radio clouds FM yesterday morning when he was explaining his reasons for writing a resignation letter and his intention to go back to that party. he said that in the year 2005 immediately after CCM threw off Doctor Salim, he pursued him to contest for the presidency through CUF and that Doctor Salim refused saying he was a member of CCM and he can't leave that party and join CUF. Professor Lipumba said that after being asked his reasons for continuing to be the chairman and that he has been contesting for the presidency without giving others in the party a chance, to which he answered that he has been making efforts to look for other people to contest for that position without success and that, party elders have been pressuring him to continue contesting for that position. furthermore, professor Lipumba pointed out that his secretary general Maalim Seif Hamad has been betraying that party with the intention to kill it in the countryside and that was the exact reason why he decided to write a letter resigning from the chairmanship. he said that Maalim Seif turned against him and made talks with CHADEMA concerning issues of the unity of the people's constitution without involving him, yet as chairman only he was supposed to be involved in those talks and reach agreements on the process leading to the 2015 general elections. he showed clearly that what happened between him and Maalim Seif is a betrayal like it happened during the time of Mzee Aboud Jumbe in the year 1984 when as talks went on, one of the people made a betrayal where secrets of the meetings were taken to Mwalimu Nyerere finally Mzee Jumbe decided to resign. "my secretary general turned against me, at the same time while I was attending meetings, he was doing unofficial meetings, there was sabotage and unfortunately or intentionally, he had talks with CHADEMA leaders, our CHADEMA colleagues used that opening to weaken us," he said Professor Lipumba, who was being questioned by listeners through short message service and engaged in those questions by commentators, Masoud Ali 'Kipanya' and Barbara Hassan as they led that programme, said that the coming of Edward Lowassa is one of the reasons that made him write a resignation letter. explaining reasons for his impatience and in that way being forced to write a resignation letter, he said that he was unable to persevere out of the fact that he would be forced to be a campaigner for Lowassa whereas, he openly knows, that contestant was covered with accusations of lacking ethical leadership values. answering the question if there is proof of Lowassa's involvement in the accusations made against him that can take him to court, professor Lipumba answered that the late Mwalimu Nyerere already said in the past that this young man (Lowassa) has an unexplainable wealth, therefore, it was enough to see him as having accusations to answer on wealth. even so, he said that he believes that he's still the legitimate chairman of CUF because there has been no meeting that sat to discuss his letter and accepted his resignation, and even so many people reached to ask him to return to his position. "many people came to ask me to return and I decided to write a letter cancelling my resignation letter and I planned until the day of entering the office to start working, the secretary general wrote to me that I shouldn't return to the office until he had sought legal counsel from the party lawyers," he explained. "paragraph 117 of the constitution says resignation will be complete, if the appointing authority accepts, the authority which appointed me never met until the general meeting, therefore, cancellation continued to make me continue being the chairman before decisions of the general meeting had been passed," he emphasized. Professor Lipumba also said that he has no plans of starting any party or joining another party and that he can't allow Lowassa to enter into CUF and that the act of Maalim Seif refusing to shake hands with Doctor Shaine was a mistake and that it's not a civilized act. furthermore, he made it clear that together with their political differences between him and Maalim Seif, they met with him in the Hindu Mandar hospital, where they met and shook hands even though he had chased Professor Lipumba from the party.
T13 the constitution gives a citizen the freedom of speaking and converging. if there is anything the Kenyan citizens are supposed to be proud of is the constitution that was passed in 2010. the constitution is the one that protects the rights of every Kenyan, children or adults without discrimination. because of the constitution, everyone gets protection. it's in the constitution every citizen has been given the freedom to speak, converge, protest and cooperate with others. under the constitution, there is no one allowed to discriminate or treat people as slaves. everyone has been given so many rights. the time the constitution says the rights of a person should be revoked, is when he becomes a threat to the national security or a danger to the security of people themselves. I was surprised when a case was brought to court to halt the meeting for the Cord coalition that took place two days ago. I would like to educate the Jubilee leaders that there's freedom of converging in the constitution and there's no person who can ever prevent people from meeting and consulting each other. I congratulate the high court for clarifying the elements and explaining to the leaders with dictatorial legacy that they have no chance. Alfred Nyandieka, Nairobi. let's educate girls, every time I look at women's efforts in ensuring girls get education especially among the pastoralist communities, I get surprised as to why they shouldn't be acknowledged and rewarded. it is clear that these are women who know the sweetness of education and have eaten its fruits. I say that women's efforts are supposed to be congratulated and they should be invited and awarded even medals during state functions for making a contribution towards the girl child's education. I call upon the Turkana, Mandera and Wajir communities to arise from their deep sleep and educate girls. our opinion maker, Nairobi. rot has grown until: rot has fixed its roots into our communities in Kenya. even though the development is good and the stability in technology is something commendable, many things have gone amiss. the current generations have embraced technology genuinely and have tried to immerse themselves into recognizing its usefulness. and it is now frustrating how many ladies are increasingly bundling their photos publicly on the internet for the sake of gaining fame with ease. an increase in shameful photos portraying private parts in social media is clear proof that, morality among the youths has deteriorated. however, it is not only the youths who are being blamed. I would like to point an accusatory finger to the press for making a major contribution in losing direction on good morals. Martin Muchina, Multimedia University. security has deteriorated: security in Molo town has deteriorated following the killings especially the shocking recent ones. the deaths of three girls killed and their bodies dumped in the forests are the ones that annoyed the area residents most. I request the county government of Nakuru to promote security so that the fear that is causing many to be anxious. the frequent criminal incidents happening should not continue because the governor was a security officer. Rotich K Benjamin, Masinde University. Raila should stop inciting before the general election, the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga said that he will accept the outcome of the results. now why can't he believe that he was defeated and respect the citizens' decision? instead of putting up strategies for the next election, he is engaging himself with incitement against the government. we all remember his sentiments, "seventh, July on the Saba Saba day. if they do not come to talk to us, there won't be work the whole of Kenya." which development loving leader incites citizens against working because the government has refused to heed to his personal call? Salim Dawood Salim, Maasai Mara University. citizens should assist the police, the 10,000 security officers who will be employed are urged to know their major role is protecting the citizens and their properties. without doubt, everyone knows that without police officers among the society, crime would have fixed its roots. it is clear that citizens manage to get sleep because police officers are on patrol and if one tries to hold onto someone's property, he is usually taken to the police station and charged. if we will need to be protected as required, then citizens will have to support the police efforts of destroying crime. I urge citizens to heed to the advice that says, win yourself to win, so that we can get better services. Doris Kambua, Machakos.
T538 furniture
T18 CCM Arusha congratulates Magufuli written by Prisca Libaga, Maelezo, Arusha published: 28 September 2016 Revolutionary Party (CCM) Arusha District, congratulated President John Magufuli for his work since he was elected to hold office in October last year. the leader has shown a genuine desire to serve the citizens without discrimination, preference in accelerating national development. statement of the Executive Council of CCM in the district, issued by Arusha Regional CCM Secretary General Jasper Kishumbua, said in a short period of time has brought honor and discipline to the staff and government officials. the President has increased government revenue from 900 million shillings per month to 1.04 trillion shillings per month, this is a great success. regarding promises, President Magufuli, who is also Chairman of CCM, has fulfilled his promises during campaigns example buying two planes and financing the high court. he congratulated Arusha Regional Head, Mrisho Gambo and Arusha District Head, Fabiani Gabriel Daqarro, for overseeing the implementation of CCM notice and being a front line to resolve the concerns of the people in Arusha.
T19 charging fine for the corrupt has saved the disable persons on June 01, 2012. there was arrangement of exchange of debate in the Chama Cha Mapinduzi party because of several reasons among being the political leaders creating political networks and engaging in corruption while others are giving inciting statements outside this party, then any the an action will be taken by the good citizens has being addressed. two big thing is expected to come out in that party. first, leaders who are suspected to involve in corruption disciplinary and legal action must taken against them. two, those who talk outside the party sitting among them members of parliament they shall be given warning and they should be careful. already at that time there are those who started opposing among were some of the Secretariat of that party and whose chair is the secretary general Yusuf Makaba of CCM party. apart from the secretary general of CCM, the secretariat is made up of the assistants of the secretary generals of CCM who are Saleh Ramadhan (Zanzibar) and George Mkuchika (mainland), the secretary of NEC of National organization, Kidawa Yusuf Hamid, the secretary national executive committee of ideology and expansion John Chiligati, the secretary national executive committee of political issues and international relations, Bernard Membe and the the secretary national executive committee of economics and finance, Amos Makala. the responsibility of the secretariat of the national council is to organize all the activities of the party CCM at the national and also organize the national sittings at the national level. according to the information we got of meeting of secretariat which was held in Dar es Salam recently, large number of the delegates support that the party should held responsible for those members who involve in corruption and they become burden to the party after they were taken action by agencies. however, it is being explained that in the same session also it planned the main committee of CCM, to meet January 3 this year and NEC to meet for two days 25 and 26 in Dodoma city, it is only one delegate who was seen as protecting the suspects of corruption who for along time have been involved to benefit from them but his protests did not change the position of his fellow delegates who are many. but when the situation is like that, it is explained by the personnel of the highest level in the government who have been supporting that decision that is expected to be done in that party and some being ready to embrace blames of leadership this is a step of separating President Kikwete with hatred that can come from what we call "hard decision" more reports are explaining that the situation of discussing the suspects of corruption being mentioned that they personal strategies so much that it has been disturbing that party it is annoying and tiresome to many leaders who are faithful in the government and other questioned, "them (by their name) who are they in this country until they make people to lack sleep?" our sources of information that are near to the senior leaders in the country they have suggested that the step being taken so as to clean CCM before the platforms of campaigns later this year. that direction of reaching to "hard decisions" is mentioned to be involved with that what is expected to emerge from the report of the committee of the retired President, Ali Hassan Mwinyi. the Mwinyi's committee that joins Deputy Chairman of CCM, Pius Msekwa and the delegate of the main committee of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana, which was created by NEC during its previous sitting in Dodoma city so as to offer suggestions of finishing what was mentioned as enmity among the members of parliament of that party together with the delegates of the councils' representatives from Zanzibar who had contradictory statements with senior leaders of the government of union. it is already been reported that there is a situation of conflict in they way they look at each other among the delegates of that committee in the preparation of the report and because of that conflict, the delegates of the committee are preparing a different report that they will present to the CCM secretariat. the real situation on the direction of CCM during the general elections later this year, it is expected to have a lot of complains if that party will not make any decision which has been posted with a name "hard decision" by separating with the suspects of acts of corruption, who are already are responsible in the government. some of the senior leaders of CCM are involved in major incidents of corruption, including theft of billions of funds from the Overseas Debt Account (EPA), Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) and some of them are already in court and their case are going on, included is the Secretary of Finance and Economy of CCM, Kigoma province, Rajabu Maranda. aside from the senior officials of that party, there is a claim also that it has been contributed funds for election by some of the businesspeople who are involved in the acts of Corruption in the country, who some have also been taken to court. already the situation of there being a split is obvious not only among members of parliament but even among the government leaders and especially ministers. at the end of the year, the committee of Mwinyi was ever reported by some of the media house that it has started to breakdown, while it explained that there is a part of suggestions in her report of together because of the submission of NEC-CCM has been leaked. in those information, it explained that some of the leaders of CCM has suggested about the recommendation that committee, that was claimed is together with removing those who are in power and some are suspects. from those recommendations of removing some of the senior officials they are mentioned to a tendency of protesting with committee on the claims that the step is intense, without caring who they will leave in power so that they can remain as normal members they have already done that by leaving their positions in the government.
T539 horse hyp animal
T303 DC has selected 6 through the entertainment law. written by Sophia Mwambe. printed 19 November 2016. head of the Kinondoni district, Ally Hapi, has formed a committee of six people to go through the law concerned with entertainment issues as well as collecting views from shareholders, vendors, bars and hotels and doing research on how music sound is scheduled. that committee will carry that research so that this business can be archived without violating the laws of the country and without being tortured or tortured by anyone else. Hapi formed the committee at his discussion session with homeowners, bar and hotels that took place in that region. he said that that committee will have to have a writing that will advise on ways of archiving that business, including authenticity of the laws of running the entertainment sessions. he added that, homeowners, hotel and bar are supposed to make sure that they run their sessions on legal foundations, and the principle to avoid the noise of a musical nature in those regions. Kinondoni Municipality Director, Aron Kagurumjui, wanted those owners to make sure the focus is on the directions they were given to reduce unnecessary relationships in running the entertainment session.
T302 picture syn photograph hotel
T301 albino hyp person
T300 bacteria
T307 this mom will kill me, every time she wants something she escapes her husband and call me to a hotel to take care of her this mom in the picture wants to kill me just a little boy, I met her in Mlimani City at The Game she was doing shopping with her little children the things she had bought were many so I helped her take them to her car, thanked me and asked for my phone number, from there on we were communicating but as the days went by we found ourselves chatting about love and one day we met and gave her 3 doses of power, it is now getting worse because every week she looks for me twice I give her things she says that her husband cannot do, she always pays the hotel with everything till the drinks I work my doses, I have tried to investigate her and realized she is a famous politician's wife here in Tanzania. I am worried by fearing for my life while still young and I am looking for life. I ask for advice...
T306 <no-speech> as the day of the World Cup finals of the year two thousand and fourteen in Russia draws nearer the leadership of Saransk town one of the towns that will host the finals has authorized the towns of Penza and Ulyanovsk to receive visitors who will miss out hotel accommodation in Saransk town . the government of the Republic of Moldova where those towns are situated has reached an agreement with Saransk town to receive guests who will grace the world's biggest tournaments and to host them in its hotels and other social amenities that are indicated in the contract . the government of Moldova has ascertained that it is in a feasible process of improving infrastructure which includes renovating the hotels in Penza and Ulyanovsk to make them much better . the neighboring town to Saransk has three to five hotels that are five-star but those towns have good bus and train transport services as well as tourist attraction sites . Penza town is one hundred and forty kilometers from Saransk town while Ulyanovsk is two hundred and twenty kilometers away . <no-speech> following %incomplete
T305 shocks as he uses a straw to take tea Jombi surprised attendants and customers in one hotel here in town, when he ordered a cup of tea and then asked for a straw he arrived in town from up country in search of a job. when he entered the hotel, the guy ordered a cup of tea and refused to take insisting to be given a straw. "give me with this tea. don't think that I am a fool, I understand town things very much," the guy yelled at the attendants. according to the information, the guy started being harsh and angry with the attendants and the customers moved away thinking that he would attack them. the guy said it is his right to be given a straw like the other customers who were taking soda in that hotel. 'straw' I drink according to the source, a crowd started to gather in the hotel to witness what was going on. the efforts of one attendant requesting him to calm down was in vain, he threatened to beat him up if he moved closer without giving him whatever he was asking for. "don't move closer to me thinking that you know more than I do, this is why your hotel is not growing because of poor services," the guy said. by Nyaboga Kiaga the attendant noticed that the guy was not joking, he calmed him by bringing the straw the was asking for. immediately, his face lit with a smile while praising whoever gave him the straw for understanding and knowing his work. "thank you so much. you are not like these workers who don't know anything. they are supposed to follow your example and serve their customers well. I wanted to see the manager of this hotel because these workers are not obedient at all," the guy said. rumor has it that the guy sat down and started taking his tea calmly using that straw while telling other customers that it is not wrong for a person to fight for his rights. however, because everyone was scared of him no one answered him. after finishing taking tea, the guy asked for the bill, paid and left.
T304 arrested and forced to pay for the credit of the meal he had borrowed. by Dennis Sinyo Bitobo, Bumula the fellow who had evaded the hotel that he had a debt of 400 shillings and went to eat at another hotel found himself in trouble when he was arrested and forced to pay that debt. according to sources, the guy P had borrowed food on debt at the hotel and promised to pay at the end of the month but when he got money he started having his meals at another hotel. the owner of the first hotel got news that the guy was avoiding his hotel and he searched for him at the second hotel where he found him and confronted him demanding that he pay the debt he owes him. in fear embarrassment he was forced to pay the debt. however, he was heard reproaching the guy for demanding his debt in the hotel that was not his, saying he had the right to eat at a hotel of his choice
T309 ambassador camera
T308 how the constitution was found October 11, 2014 leaders threaten to leave posts, frequent meetings of the ministers of Zanzibar union and rise in emotions among members of constitutional parliament are among the issues that came up during the process of looking for the proposed constitution that ends today. according to the news that was found after interviews with the members of the special constitutional parliament (BMK), official news of the parliament from the meetings of those committees and the revolution of the parliament itself, Raia Mwema has got a picture of what particularly was going on behind the scenes. among the news that this newspaper has got is the step of former chairman of the Constitution Drafting Committee, Andrew Chenge threatening to quit his position if representatives of the committee could have forced things that would degrade the dignity of the committee. according the official news of the committee, Chenge directed after some of the representatives of his committee wanting the current system of having the president and a running-mate to be changed and instead the president to have two deputies who are the president of Zanzibar and the prime minister of Tanzania. Chenge had suggested that the president of the republic of the union is supposed to have a deputy who is a running-mate from his party, while having two other deputies who are Zanzibar's president and the prime minister of Tanzania. "if you want to eliminate the position of co-aspirant and then we have Zanzibar's president and the prime minister then you look for another person to present their ideas. then we shall be doing a job that people will be shocked by us. "later in the journey, it might come up that the president of Zanzibar comes from a different party from Tanzania's president. if now there is no running-mate and the president meets trouble, it means that whoever succeeds will come from a different party. "according to the current constitution and the one proposed, the prime minister is supposed to come from the party with majority members in parliament. if it happens that the prime minister comes from a different party with his president, meaning the president has more votes than his members of parliament, will you not find the president from another party there?" questioned Chenge. the written reports confirmed by some of representatives who were in the committee who, however, state that wisdom was applied and finally Chenge's suggestions are the ones that have been adopted into the proposed constitution. the constitution suggests to have three deputy presidents who are the running-mate who becomes the first deputy, the president of Zanzibar who will be the second deputy while the prime minister becomes the third. news from the committee states that however, Chenge was a leader without emotions in his committee and that maybe the work could have been difficult if the chairperson was Doctor Asha Rose Migiro who was stated to have a tough stand. Raia Mwema has been told that while BMK proceeds, there happened at least two meetings of the ministers of the union and those from Zanzibar, in discussing financial matters in the new constitution. it is the meeting and the tough debates, this newspaper has been told, that finally caused the calling of the Governor of the central bank Professor Benno Ndullu to Dodoma, together with his assistants in order to explain financial and union matters. "you know people think that when the members of parliament from CCM remained in the parliament and those without a wing unity of the people's constitution (Ukawa), then BMK cooled down. I assure you, the parliament was very active now. "there is time emotions were rising till you decide to have a break or call experts from outside so that you get detailed explanations. those who were outside, have missed a lot," said one of the representatives of BMK who even though did not like his name mentioned. the proposed constitution is expected to be presented to presidents Jakaya Kikwete and Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein in the scene that was planned to happen in Jamuhuri stadium in Dodoma from two pm today. since two nights ago, special vehicles for advertisement have been passing in the streets of Dodoma to create awareness to citizens to come up in large numbers during the event that is expected to be attended by all top leaders in the nation. the proposed constitution is big and with a lot of things than the draft of the commission of Judge Warioba because it has embedded itself in the systems of two governments while the one for the commission was for the sake of three governments. it has 18 Articles more than the one for the commission, it has a total of 289 Articles compared to 271 for the draft. while presenting the proposed constitution in parliament, Chenge said the constitution has taken 233 articles from the draft of the constitution commission.
T442 rent house
T534 entrepreneurship
T443 Diallo mentions the problems that are chewing CCM August 18, 2016. Mwanza - while the CCM chairman Doctor John Magufuli is waited on to start "puncturing boils" that are weakening the party economically, the chairman of Mwanza province, Doctor Anthony Diallo has come out to mention the supervisors of that evil to be executives, especially secretaries that employed in the party. that statement by Diallo has been supported by a number of his colleagues including the chairman of the CCM Projects Committee of Mwanza Province, Ally Hamis Mambile and party's secretary Charles Masalakulangwa, who have advised that the employment system and titles in the party to be revised to improve on revenue and financial spending. speaking to Raia Mwema in Mwanza last weekend, being two days after President Magufuli had finalize his tour here in the province, the delegates have predicted a hard task awaiting the chairman in cleaning up the ruling party from harboring many leaders who are not patriots and honest. CCM Mwanza province owns several buildings that is renting out to various businesspersons, but the revenues collected from the projects are purported to have been misappropriated by few directors to the extend of failing to expand the investment by starting new projects. some of those buildings include a five story building that houses CCM's regional headquarter that generates for the party revenue of 31 million shillings every month, CCM Kirumba that generates 35 million shillings and Tunakopesha that generates five million shillings per month, according to the chairman of projects, Mambile. Doctor Diallo has been mentioned to have visions of strengthening the party by increasing economic projects but his ambition has been disrupted by his secretary's office mandated to manage utilization of the revenues collected. without hesitation, he has openly mentioned that many CCM secretaries at regional and district levels are the wizards of the economy of the party, hence he wishes to see the wrath of Doctor Magufuli landing on them without mercy for the benefit of the citizens. "often the embezzlers of the party's revenues are the greedy secretaries enrolled at the regions and districts from the headquarters (office of the secretary general that employs them), even here (Mwanza) financial matters have not been good," he said. on his part, Mambile who is also a member of the regional political committee has explained his dissatisfaction with the system that denies those committees authority to take disciplinary actions against executives who misuse the funds of the party. "the political committee has no authority to take action against an executive who steals the party's funds, the only leader with those powers is the secretary general," said Mambile and continued: "the political committee should be given teeth to discipline the embezzlers since it is the one that goes through the reports of the party, it should be authorized to take direct actions even if it's suspending incompetent executives." but on the other hand, he said, little understanding concerning of performance issues to some of the elected leaders has been contributing to giving an opening to unethical executives to benefit from party funds. and a famous cadre and founder of CCM Masalakulangwa, believes that the foundation of patriotism in the party began wavering after the introduction of multi-party system in the country in the year 1992, that allowed wealthy businesspersons to be given leadership in the party for fearing being ejected from power. "CCM was a solid party for farmers and businesspersons in the era of Julius (father of the nation, teacher Nyerere), but it began wavering in the year 1992, I believe it was threatened by the power of multi-party and started looking for the affluent to be given the leadership even if he doesn't have the ability to lead and left out competent individuals." "since that time it tolerated bribes from the opinion polls to the general election and overlooked the candidate's reputation." until now there is a possibility that there is no leader in CCM and if present they are few like Magufuli who did not bribe. "that is why I say, if it's removing the names of bribe givers, Magufuli will eliminate them amicably through his powers as the chairman of CCM because most of them don't know how to ask for votes without bribing, even the voters are accustomed to being bribed." but I'm very confident with Doctor Magufuli. I believe he can restore this party to the strong foundation that had been established by Julius Nyerere if he will get good cooperation from party members with genuine patriotism. during Nyerere's era, individuals were not going to seek wealth in the party. but these days, almost every young person that we employ in the party come to look for money. it's him first, party later. that is why it has become poor and a beggar," explained Masalakulangwa, who also got to be the party's treasurer, Mwanza province for 10 consecutive years (1992-2002).
T535 national symbol
T444 hub syn focal point commerce syn buying and selling
T288 the . <no-speech> the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda emphasized the importance of complete management of the national fund of health insurance in the country N_H_I_F so that to reach the government target of availability of health services through better health plan for citizens especially in this period going toward the end of implementation of development goals of -- millennium of the year two thousand and fifteen . Linah Dennis have prepared the following report . <no-speech> <no-speech> in ensuring that better health care goal is achieved the Prime Minister Pinda has required the availability of national agenda targeting to encourage the communities to join the community health fund C_H_F that is under N_H_I_F that offers services to the citizens that are in the informal sector particularly in the villages . the Prime Minister was speaking in the ceremony honoring ten years of national health insurance fund N_H_I_F Dar es Salaam town where he also wanted that fund together with the successes resulting from dealing with the challenges that are there in service provision through N_H_I_F . on government plan truly is to make this fund to have important pillars in contributing to the development of health sector here in the country . Tanzania has become one of the countries with political desire and intention of performance and management of health insurance and its importance . on his side the retired President Benjamin Mkapa who in those celebrations was among the people who were given awards of national insurance fund warriors because of their different contributions they provided in success . he has used that opportunity to require the efforts -- reached to be continued so that to satisfy the desires of starting the fund and emphasize the importance of better health in the general economic growth . I would like to remind you that a nation with people with better health is the beginning of development of the country and the people themselves . that way the modern services of health insurance are important in bringing national development and its goodness is the illustration of good life reached by the people themselves . on his side Assistant Minister of health Doctor Lucy Nkya explained the government's intention to continue to preside over the availability of better health services in the country through that health insurance fund which would be used as the important pillar in the development of health sector the action that was also talked about by the chairman of N_H_I_F Mister Deugate Asintukamazina . a big population of the citizens are now benefiting from the services of community health fund by contributing a small amount of money per year . even so the encouragement to join the fund of C_H_F still it is not -- satisfying among the citizens . not only the retired President Benjamin Mkapa but also those celebrations involved the launching of books concerning that fund and the giving of awards to different people that was attended also by several current and retired leaders including the retired Prime Minister Frederick Sumaye and others who were in the ministry of health at the time of starting of that fund . Linah Dennis Channel Ten Dar es Salaam . <no-speech> president %incomplete
T441 ministers to continue stretch out with panels May 31, 2012. among the leaders who will continue to use luxurious vehicles, famous as the squares are ministers and their assistants, is well known. reports reaching us explain that ministers and assistant ministers will remain in the list of those who will use those vehicles due to the kind of performance in their activities which to a large extent involves trips in the citizens areas, in the villages. further reports explain that the heads of departments are among the group of cadre which will be affected by this government decision which was officially announced by President Jakaya Kikwete to reduce the number of swarms, including the reduction of the number of vehicles that were expected to be ordered this year. however, the assistant minister for Infrastructure, Hezekiah Chibulunje, refused to confirm that possibility for now insisting that he will be ready to that after the official copy about the issue is complete and presented in the ministers council. according to Chibulunje, the ministry currently continues to prepare the copy with the aim of reducing the burden of government spend. the step taken by the ministry is to implement the instruction of the President, Jakaya Kikwete, that in this financial year, the government will not buy cars as it is normal but instead it will buy few cars which are needed. the funds that are expected to be saved from that decision by the government have been planned to import tractors so as to develop the agricultural sector in the country that is mentioned to employ more than 80 percent of citizens. on Monday this week, while answering a question from the member of parliament of special seats, Lucy Owenya (Chadema), Chibulunje said the government has been buying the cars very expensive because of the ministry and its departments. he defended the procedure saying that type of automobile is stable and can withstand long distances in rural areas, and that since those cars begun to be used in the country in late 1980s, the government has been assessing the cost of using those vehicles. however, he said together with the stability the operating costs of these cars are double high as soon as they begin to get old. in his reply, Chibulunje told the members of parliament that the document organized by his ministry would set the procedure for the use of such vehicles in the government by focusing on the position of the leaders. at the end of last year, while in that meeting with the senior secretaries from various ministries together with the executive director, Philemon Luhanjo, in his office in Dar es Salaa city, the prime minister, Mizengo Pinda noted that the government planned to buy 800 of those expensive cars, and advised that it is mandatory to reduce the number, a step which was later supported by a special order from President Kikwete, in his last speech for the month of January.
T282 officials accused of selling relief food by Magdalene Wanja some of government officials in the Nakuru County have been accused of selling relief food which was required to benefit the poor. speaking in Nakuru, Njoro Member of Parliament Joseph Kiuna said the government had already provided relief food but some corrupt leaders benefited from selling the food. "government officials have the responsibility to defend and serve the people, but it is embarrassing that they are benefiting from the help of the poor," Mister Kiuna said. the area has been affected by Maize Lethal Necrosis Disease (MLND) maize disease which resulted in poor crop yields. the most affected areas are Njoro where the government continues to provide support to prevent hunger. initially, some officials from the area demanded that the government establish a program of feeding pupils at school to prevent children from missing school. Mister Kiuna challenged farmers to promote alternative food farming such as millet and potatoes to prevent hunger. they are also encouraged to use different types of foods apart from maize to help children get better health. "there are many schools in this area and their activities can be severely affected if the nutrition program will not start as students will be forced to walk around in search of food," he said. the nutritional plan for school children is mentioned by researchers on education issues as one way to facilitate the largest number of children to receive education.
T283 14,000 recruits to be educated yearly. by Mwangi Muiruri the Central Government has announced that they will be educating 14,000 recruits in the national youth service (NYS) yearly on potato farming. the announcement was made yesterday by the Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Agricultural prosperity, Miss Ann Onyango, during the inauguration of the project at the NYS college in Ruaraka, Nairobi county. this project will be made possible through the cooperation of NYS and the National Potato Council of Kenya (NPCK). Miss Onyango said that this project will also profit 1,500 field officers as well as 1,200 recruits yearly, who will be given the option to choose to work as agricultural officers after graduating. she said that this will give Kenya a bigger platform to harvest food through technology and new ideas learned by the officers. Miss Onyango said the benefit of the memorandum of understanding is that NYS will be educating the recruits yearly and in turn they will be able to earn money from the agricultural project. "the department of NYS will be a seller of potatoes and its seedlings at the market in order to get money," she said. furthermore, after graduating and joining national building, the NYS recruits will be well equipped with knowledge of participating in agriculture in the community, therefore, increasing the national potato harvest. Miss Onyango urged other institutions like the prisons service, universities and other higher learning institutions to sign such memorandum of understanding so as to gain extra money and lessen the burden of purchasing food from the market. the NPCK director, Mister Naftaly Kaguongo said that potatoes is the second agriculture in the country whose benefits are seen first hand in public nutrition. he said that for now, that farming has attracted more than three million farmers while contributing as a whole 40 billion shillings as national revenue. "either, potato farming helps 800,000 Kenyans to earn a living in the hotel, wine and juice sectors," he said.
T280 mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> nothing . <no-speech> or were you at work ? <no-speech> <no-speech> no today is Sunday . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm did you go to church ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> no . <no-speech> or -- or did you say you don't go to church ? <no-speech> I usually go but I haven't gone today . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm why ? <no-speech> I don't know if it is my sleep . mm ? <no-speech> I -- I -- I'm on top of my sleep . mm -- you're sleeping mm isn't that type of sleeping for babies or the sickness -- sleeping sickness . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I don't have sleeping sickness stop calling me that do you remember the other time you called me pussy ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> ahh the time you were licking milk and pap ? so size you're %incomplete <no-speech> (())(()) at that time you know you've gone to a Kisii's house and so it's just pap continuously really . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . what do you prefer eating ? ahh . <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh at least you've seen some friends . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . mmhm . so do you mean that you can't eat pap daily ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm I really can't . <no-speech> and what will you eat ? <no-speech> <no-speech> something else ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm ? <no-speech> something else ? <no-speech> which other thing ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> there's rice there are mashed potatoes there are so many things . <no-speech> <no-speech> that is not food . <no-speech> okay so that is food as long as pap has been cooked for you . that is %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm .
T128 a few years ago, during the former forth term government, there's one thing that really shocked me. that thing concerned a minister of that government and a bank guard. what happened is that the honorable minister had gone to the money dispensing machine, famous as ATM, maybe for the sake of withdrawing money. while inside that room, he started speaking on phone. he spoke on phone for a long time, a situation that made the customers who were waiting for that service to start complaining, forcing the guard to request the minister to step aside for the other customers to access the service. that didn't please the minister and he instead started asking the guard if he knew who he was, because he as a minister had many important matters and he was having a very important phone call. for that minister, the issue of talking inside the ATM room and denying other customers like him a chance to access the service they needed for a time wasn't a big deal at all. the honorable minister and the bank guard saga was reported in the press and unfortunately its end was saddening, because the bank guard was fired due to executing his duties. some of the people made noise but there's nothing that happened. mostly, someone's dad was left without a job while wondering how to take care of his family that depended on him. now the other day that situation repeated itself again. this time round however, it involved the wife to another honorable minister who argued with a traffic officer executing his official duties for explaining the traffic offenses she had committed. instead of listening to her offenses and get punished in accordance to her actions, this wife used her card of going through her husband's back and made negative annoying sentiments to that officer. for the first time in a long time, things are heading towards change and those who thought they are above the law are being reminded again that Tanzania is not theirs alone. reports say that President John Pombe Magufuli has ordered the traffic officer who was doing his job and ended up being insulted by the minister's wife to be promoted. at the same time, he has warned the minister and his wife from getting involved in that incident, since there is no one who is above the law. personally, that report has made me very happy. let's just say that Tanzania was a very strange country. it had very many classes to a point of people talking about the desire to run to other foreign countries due to feeling undervalued, while others strutted in the neighborhoods dismissing people from work as if they were the valid owners of this country. Tanzania reached a point where this traffic officer whom the president decided to promote would have been at a very tough state. first lies would have been placed on him and then he would have been transferred from the work station to a village with a very common unit. those he annoyed would have ensured that the guy never returns to town again, and he'd totally be forgotten. but all this is due to the ignorance of certain classes thinking they are above the law and they are untouchable, while we the lows, continue to pay fines lawfully and sometimes getting punished by an officer angered by the mistreatment of the likes of the minister's wife.
T286 Kikwete is pleased with the good results of the Stars, he wants them to win the World Cup in 2014 President Jakaya Kikwete has called for the National team players (Taifa Stars) to ensure they win to play in the final World Cup final in 2014 in Brazil. President Kikwete met with the Stars team he provided for lunch yesterday, the capital of Dar es Salaam. Kikwete said he was pleased with the good results of the Stars, which won second place in Group C position, and that Tanzanians now love it after doing well in the previous matches. there was a moment when it was lost and made some fans go into the stadium carrying the bookmarks of best looser, with ridiculous words. some stopped going and some cheered at the opposing team, Kikwete said. there was a time I was thinking of even stopping paying the National Team coach and leaving the role to TFF, but I saw a coach die starving and proceeding with the original decision. I am happy to see now there is a great success, but we should make sure we train ourselves to 'wrap' all the teams in this second round, he added. he explained that the day in which Tanzania was defeated by Mozambique in the central stadium, he had a difficult time answering the question of President Kagame of Rwanda who wanted to know the results of the match. "defeat is very frustrating even to us who follow the games, ensure you give us comfort and I am ready to help everything," said Kikwete praising the Opereshi Victory committee for a great task of giving the players attention by giving them Shilling 30 million. initially, acting chairman of the victory operation, Ramadhan Dau, who is the chief executive officer of NSSF, said their main role is to eliminate all the annoyances of the players and team officials so that they can play soccer in a good environment. national team Captain Juma Kaseja thanked Kikwete for his contribution and promised to do well in all the matches and qualify. team coach, Kim Poulsen, said that although they face a great deal of work, they are confident that they will be champions in the World Cup, CHAN and the African Nations Cup (AFCON).
T287 why does the government be defeated to start the sports organization? managing the sports it's a big cost even the government of the Nations that continues does not guarantee the one by one sports because of understanding the issue of costs. in developed countries, their governments don't manage sports directly but they have created special organizations because of the management of those sports in their countries, and they have made sure those organizations give good management to the national teams. for example, the United Kingdom has created a UK Sports company for managing sports especially in national teams, and the company looks for funds and distributes them into projects to develop various national teams. here in the country, still we are looking up to the government to release money in their budget every year for the purpose of conducting sports in the country, a way that our government of Tanzania has not been doing. the main reason that the government is budgeting is not enough to give priority to sports because most of the budget funds are invested in education, health, infrastructure, debt, and other sectors due to its importance in government plans and needs of the people. such that, every year when the government announce the budget, the players got themselves suffering a lot because sports sector is given few shares of money which does not help sports at all. I understand our government is lead by Sports Federation in the Country (BMT) in the area of sports which is given priority of supervising sports under Ministry for Communication, youths, art and sports, such that I prefer BMT to be changed and to be a sport federation which will work with government and non-government so as to bring improvement at sports sector in the country. the agency should be independent as other organization, governmental, but to seek various sponsors and stakeholders who can contribute financially or organize fundraising. also that federation has to follow sports organization, to follow the government and move on worldwide to search for different source of income then they collet. that organization has the capacity to tell the sports' association to give them a national team, what kind of coaches they want, and these coaches will be paid salaries with that sports' organization but if they truly have responsible leaders. I believe that way will help in good management of income and usage, but the way the situation is right now the sports' association have been left with a bigger responsibility of promoting sports in the country and even though, it does not mean that the associations should be anxious in their area. if the government will accept my view towards the establishment of a sports organization in the country then sports parties to have the responsibility of planning their own budget and submit it to the association as well as their recommendations and the organization will have the responsibility to fund the sports club and provide them with the conditions that will help the sports organization have the right to question the use of such funds for sports clubs and sports clubs also will be obliged to provide information on their expenditure to the organization. because it is a government agency, then the sports association, the government, and audit firm will join and audit the revenue and expenditure of sports clubs and manage well the sports club. it is clear in that procedure people leading sports clubs will work by 90 percent if not 100 because currently, the work efficiency of sports club leaders isn't even 20 percent while money awarded to the sports clubs by sponsors have been disappearing into the pockets of leaders and whatever was expected has never been achieved.
T284 national team
T285 TFF to reward Kili Queens 22 million. written by our writer. published: 24 September 2016. the President of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Jamal Malinzi has promised to give the national team of Tanzania women, Kilimanjaro Queens, 10 thousand American dollars (equivalent to 22 million shillings) after that team takes over the championship of Chalenji. he said that during the evening which was prepared for the players to take over the championship in that first competition in East Africa which were held in Jinja Uganda. and the Minister of News, Tradition, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnaye, said he is happy with the championship of that team and insisted that it has erased the thoughts of Kenyans who have been announcing that Mount Kilimanjaro is in their country Kenya. due to the championship and defending the country, Nape, who was accompanied by six members of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, promised to search for sponsorship for the team and for some players to get jobs in different regions, especially in various companies that have invested in the country. I am here with members of parliament. the November parliamentary session will begin in first November, I am inviting you to Parliament. we will speak to the speaker to break the rules of Parliament so that you can enter the parliament with our trophy. I will ask the members of parliament to get their little allowances so as to award you when you arrive. "we will have a football game between you and members of parliament, and for every goal that you will score against the members of parliament will be paid one million shillings". "I am the one who will be counting goals, but you should know, it won't be easy work scoring against members of parliament". they are good," Nape said. who is also an MP for Mtama province and his decision was supported by Parliament Sports Club chairperson, William Ngeleja. others present were Bupe Mwakang'ata, Alex Gashaza, John Kanuti who apart from being an MP is a delegate in the TFF convention together with Venance Mwamoto, former national team star and division B coach. the journey to victory for Kilimanjaro Queens started at the group stages by beating Rwanda 3-2 before drawing with Ethiopia that also got a victory of 3-2 against Rwanda. Tanzania and Ethiopia drew and tossed the coin, where Tanzania became first in group B in that way to play with Uganda which was beaten 4-0 goals in the semi-finals before winning 2-1 in the finals against Kenya.
T123 Aunt Ezekiel admits husband arrested in Dubai by Hamida Hassan bongo movie star Aunt Ezekiel has confessed her husband has been arrested and experiencing challenges but not jailed as some people are spreading rumors. telling stories with our writer recently, Aunt said her husband Sunday Demonte was arrested as a result of his visa being outdated where he was held for a while and after sorting the required procedure, he was released. "I am so surprised this rumor has spread that I have left my husband to be jailed, the truth is that my husband is free and if you wish you can talk to him right now, which woman would be this happy when her husband has trouble?" questioned Aunt. in other lines, Aunt said that many people desire to see her abandoned or to know the progress of her life with her husband but they lie to themselves for she is a woman who has decided to get married and she is contented so they will not gain anything. "it is not easy for me to disclose the secret of the life I live with my husband, it is our agreement. basically our marriage is stable, they will wait for long and they will be tired themselves," said Aunt.
T122 and our first topic says that do you think people require privacy with doctors when it comes to the issue of receiving their tests ? and our second topic ? our second topic says that how can I (()) the ten ten house tradition ? (()) %incomplete <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> <misc> hello viewers how are you I am very happy to be with you and through your televisions . I know that many of you are tired . you have returned back from work you're tired considering the long queue . the only mess is the heat and you're seated drinking soda drinking coffee drinking tea . I here I'm your colleague Tumaini Meshack I am with . Maasai Nyota Mbovu aka Maasai of (()) . yes today -- why is it short today ? you don't have %incomplete ahh I don't want to say much because others there it was saying a long name they wonder -- are you in pain ? there is not . no I am just like that it is not his usual self I am afraid . today I am just touching it a bit . okay okay well as usual we start with newspapers and our first newspaper says that Ukawa harvests C_C_M . Ukawa have harvested C_C_M where is that ? Kigoma . they have -- harvested ? they harvested like fish . (()) of maize . yes Ukawa have harvested C_C_M sister when you hear this Ukawa have harvested C_C_M what do you understand there ? what picture do you get quickly quickly ? there is that C_C_M members have defected to Ukawa . concerning C_C_M members to defect -- to defect -- Ukawa yes there in Kigoma . I guess I have understood everyone in the way I see that it is very possible Ukawa in the way it was united and a certain strength was found . is there strength that will be found ? C_C_M defecting to Ukawa I see it's like a plan to -- to -- to -- that is those plans you can use is the same as to and to -- to take away the faith of the citizens because me I don't have a member of C_C_M which -- of C_C_M which I believe that he can defect to another party and do things that are needed . okay Maasai tell us and what does your newspaper say ? ahh that one of yours has made me happy there . people say that other one says it will break the strength . mine goes to the side of sports like my usual self . it says Yanga star cries for Jaja . now I don't know they are crying for him what does he do ? is he in pain or what is he doing ? friends those fans of soccer here . big mister I see like you are -- seated like a soccer fan ? he is seated like a sports fan . stars cries out to Jaja . the system that was just there is that we have a tendency of to -- of giving someone a short time to be able to show a level . those who look far this youth had not yet reached a place of knowing that my level is like this . if you consider that the matches themselves that were played are seven and then it's not enough that he is new to the environment and the weather . this brother to someone who has a perspective he considers deeply he knows this we are wasting the club's money . right we have heard Tanzanians -- %incomplete
T121 why women uses their relation with a man as a weapon? it is common and visible that women are oppressed with men especially when it comes to the issue of faithfulness in love. moreover, women have also been raped by men whom they are married to, in the sense of forced intercourse without their consent. in that men also complain that women uses sex as a weapon when wronged by their partners. when it happens that men make a mistake, women sit silently awaiting be asked for sex so that she can refuse as she uses that opportunity as punishment for the deed done to her. Hamisi Kizungu says that deeds done by women irritates him, but this irritates him 100 percent. he says the joy of love when it reaches that your wife should let you but if you made a mistake she should tell you but waiting for the you need her more than explanation then she knocks it down impedes him. he describes that married when he was 22 year and lasted with his wife for six months because of her behavior of denying him sex whenever she needed something done for her. he explains that when that woman needed clothes, shoes to travel because she loved traveling, he used to be denied sex and given conditions to gets her what she needed or be left to do whatever she wants. Kizungu says he persevered and made efforts to be a slave to genuine love, but gave up, "I failed and saw that it shouldn't be a problem, my chicken is in the cage but I'm still required to use rice particles to catch it, I didn't manage so I let her go," says Kizungu. a residence of Tabata Segerea, Andrew Charles says he is infuriated with his wife's behavior when they disagree a little she climbs the bed with clothes ready to impede him when he wants her. he says that she will do that for time and whenever it reaches the night he gets hard time during preparations while she refuses and when defeated he decides to leave her and sleep with a clot in his heart. "when she laughs I look at her because I know if I make a small mistake she puts on again and sometimes pants, she does that even on her mistake, when I tell on her when she is wrong then I should know that day she will show me work sleeping time reaches she prepares herself as if she is going to guard that she is protecting herself from mosquitoes," Charles says as he laughs. Charles says he is irritated a lot by the behavior of using sex as a weapon and the result of that is destruction of marriage. "I warned her about sleeping fourth white man whenever she hates and she saw that we sleep one side but she put on clothes and deny me sex," he says. and Imelda William a residence of Vin gunguti Dar es Salaam city says he has done that way several times before because of lack of what to defend with and the only thing she has and she can be proud of is that. she says she has been getting short love messages in her husband's phone from other women, whenever she asks there is no reasonable answers that she is given more than being scolded therefore she sees no need of engaging in that act with her husband. Imelda adds that when they fight with her husband, he utters disrespectful and mocking utterances something that infuriates her and sees no need of having sex with such a person. "what he does belittles me then after a period of two or three hours he wants me to have sex with him, that cannot happen I am tired of being a sex slave and pleasing him that is why I refuse," she says. Chiku Mhagama a resident of Kigogo Sambusa Dar es Salaam city says among the reasons that make her use sex as a weapon is lack of what to do whenever her husband irritates her. she says she cannot give him, she cannot deny her food because he buys it himself, the only thing she can do is not to do with him an act of happiness that is that in order to demonstrate her anger. she explains that and when she does that, that's when her husband understands that she is angry and even to ask her, "you are mad, that was just a small thing, it is not over, then let it end". "he do not ask for forgiveness till I deny him sex, whenever he wants he becomes polite and humble, if I give him the rudeness remains there, I use this method to console myself because it makes me proud that I also have something of value," says Chiku. Chiku explains that she knows the damage caused by doing that including to cause the man to look another lover if he see that annoyance continues and he do have otherwise. Husna Kibalata says several months ago, she was in the village where she was taken by her husband as a punishment to be taught a fresh because of the love of using that behavior as a weapon. she says her husband got another woman and he was not keeping it a secret anymore, whenever she denied him, he calls that women and talk to her loudly in front of her and when she could not bear she started a fight that caused her be returned to the elders in the village. "after two weeks my husband came and explained why he decided to do that way and he wanted my grandmother to take me through the effects of denying a husband sex. "he asked me forgiveness and said that woman he used to talk to he arranged so as to punish me, and I asked him for for forgiveness and will never repeat even if he irritates me because my marriage nearly got into trouble," says Husna. psychologist Doctor John Haule says a man and a woman are very different in nature and the primary thing in marriage is to understand those differences in order to live peacefully. he says despite of availability of those many differences in nature, the major one is that which brings a problem in having sexual intercourse. he explains that men's sexual arousal is faster than women. a man can be aroused by just seeing the beauty of a woman while a woman get more influenced sexually by touching and hearing whatever she is hearing from a man. that way when she hears having told bad things or if she believes whatever was said against her are disrespectful or mocking it becomes difficult for her to engage in that act. "you can see the population of women that have been affected by lies by men, sometimes reunion as in he lied to her and accomplished but if he arrange words he can lie to her again. "this results from their feelings of love that are of touching or listening to good words including praising them," says Doctor Haule as he refused to mention the hospital he works at for the claims that he is not a spokesman of that hospital.
T120 Sitta is a leader by example - Kafulia written by Regina Kumba published: 08 November 2016 David Kafulila who used to be the Member of Parliament for South Kigoma has cried for he who used to be the Speaker of the Ninth Parliament and retired Member of Parliament for East Urambo District in Tabota province, Samuel Sitta, saying that Tanzania has lost a role model leader for all parties. speaking in Dar es Salaam City yesterday, Kafulila said Sitta was a role model leader because he has left big issues, which he stood for without being threatened by someone. "in truth, I can say that our country has lost a big leader who could not be threatened in his stand, he will continue to be remembered for those things that he stood for and they will remain in the people's memory," said Kafulila. he said Sitta is his close elder and he made him part of his family, even in the Jubilee celebration of commemorating 50 years of marriage, he invited him as a family member. in addition, he said in politics, Sitta made a record in standing for what he believes in for a long time, an element that is very scarce among other leaders and elders of this nation. "is the reason why he differed with the first term President, Julius Nyerere, Sitta is being chased away from Dar es Salaam University there, but he did not change his stand and later he was taken back and caned," explained Kafulila. he said when Sitta was the Speaker of the Ninth Parliament, retired President Jakaya Kikwete addressed the Parliament about corruption, but Sitta appeared to differ with him without any fear. "therefore, this leader and role model elder used to stand for what he believes in," said Kafulila and added that the disaster is very big in the hearts of people who understand his stand and also to the nation. he said that the ninth parliament which he led, he created procedures of parliament which made that parliament become one that has teeth and an example, which made people love following on it. Kafulila wanted youths to stand in the politics he was in, believing Sitta since when he was Speaker of Parliament, he did well with the opposition parliamentarians by being equal and he made them get a hearing together with their shortage in parliament. "is the principle of democracy, the majority to decide, but also the minority be given a chance to be heard," said Kafulila.
T127 (()) C_C_M yes raise your hands C_C_M members . raise a hand of love for C_C_M . <no-speech> I repeat and I want to hear your voices C_C_M (()) Singida yes long live the party for revolution . <no-speech> honorable Secretary-General for the Party for Revolution Honorable Abdamali Kimilana . <no-speech> all party leaders those of you at the high table protocol has been observed . my brothers citizens of Singida how are you ? <no-speech> if I could speak Kinyiramba I wanted to play it I don't know how they say it (()) ? <no-speech> and then in Kinyaturu how do you say it ? <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> in that way Singida is hot ohh . <no-speech> my brothers and citizens . <no-speech> I have been given time to explain to you what your government is doing concerning transport issues . especially on the central railway . <no-speech> a railway that is not just important nationally but internationally . the lives of six neighboring countries depend on our central railway . <no-speech> there are things which people are saying that we are late I want to tell you that we are not late even by one second . we are doing what we're doing with certainty so as to be certain about the things we're doing to eliminate blame later on in the journey . every matter is clean . <no-speech> honorable Secretary-General my brothers and citizens of Singida our elections' declaration for the revolutions party of the year two thousand and five explains the revival of the central railway . <no-speech> and that matter is being done very well . <no-speech> if I have time and you permit me chairman I'll talk for a whole hour . <no-speech> honorable Secretary-General I -- can a whole hour be found for talking ? <no-speech> alright I am told twenty minutes . I'll put an effort to squeeze it but let me say what the citizens of Tanzania and Singida are supposed to know what is happening . yesterday the minister for transport Doctor Harrison Mwakembe read the budget for the ministry of transport for the year two thousand and fourteen and fifteen . and gave the implementation of the budget of the year twenty thirteen and fourteen . I'll start with what happened for the last financial year on our central railway . <no-speech> my brothers and citizens our railway was built in the year nineteen hundred and five . <no-speech> it has more than a hundred years . <no-speech> therefore the tracks for the railway and bridges were themselves outdated . even an old man aged a thousand -- a hundred years also becomes tired . <no-speech> therefore what we did at first was to repair all areas that had become old and that work is being done very well . <no-speech> honorable citizens up to now we have changed the railway and the old tracks that had small weights . that cannot bear a big load . which forces the train to go at a lower speed up to now for (()) years we have made five hundred and twenty-seven kilometers . <no-speech> it's not easy . <no-speech> we have constructed a place where the train can move at seventy kilometers per hour when it gets there . <no-speech> different from now where it moves at fifteen kilometers per hour in some areas . <no-speech> for now all those areas are this one from Tabora Malongwe area up to Dar es Salaam . trains can move at seventy kilometers per hour . <no-speech> but at that section there are bridges which were worrying for training that were carrying heavy loads . <no-speech> many bridges that were built by the German had the ability to carry loads of thirteen point seven tons for one axle right now we have a program that continues to be implemented to raise these bridges to twenty-five tons for one axle . three big bridges have already undergone repairs . and one is at the border just over here in Singida province and Dodoma province Kintiku area in the middle of Kintiku and Bai . another bridge is in Kilosa . there are two in the middle of Kilosa and Burwe . all these have been completed and now the trains pass over them . <no-speech> we are building two large dams from this year's budget to reduce flooding along the railways area when it rains . we will build a dam in Magai and another one in Mpwapa area . <no-speech> the railway experts call them these two dams the decrease . that will prevent flooding along the railway when it rains heavily . right now we had stopped commuter trains as a result of weak bridges but a section of the railway had been uprooted by the rains . now we don't want a repeat of this matter and that's why we are building the two dams this year and indicates that we will build five more from the next budget to make a total of five . even it rains day and night for two years our railway will be safe . C_C_M hurray yes . <no-speech> alright we now continue with the people of Tabora Kaliua Mpanda Kigoma . the railway which is in the area I mentioned is light weight . therefore when the trains reach Tabora they reduce speed . <no-speech> therefore we have put in this year's budget one hundred and -- one hundred and seventy billion for the sake of serving that area . <no-speech> let's change the railway . let's put a heavier one . let's repair the bridges so that the people of Mpanda can be reached by the train that is able to pull twenty-one up to thirty coaches . right now the train pulls nine coaches if it goes to Mpanda . <no-speech> because the railway is faulty . but there is a budget for what we're doing . the government is giving money for the repair of that section . <no-speech> Tabora Kigoma we will likewise make those big and essential changes to our current railway . I understand the people of Singida would also want to know about Manyoni Singida ? <no-speech> this is the information . <no-speech> I have come with railway experts (()) these are not playful matters as I have come with railway experts and I am here with them . they will remain to pass through it and inspect it . <no-speech> it's whole but we can't start letting trains through without inspecting it . <no-speech> if they finish that inspection in two weeks they will bring a report and if it will show that there are no major essential repairs that need to be done we'll now start thinking of beginning a commuter train to Singida . <no-speech>
T126 <no-speech> mm ? mm we can even plan for that . <no-speech> <no-speech> and I was asking when are you going back to school ? mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh to school early June I think . when are you going back to school ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm it's towards the end of June mm . university . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> ohh June ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm I have not stayed at home for a long time without work ohh . you feel like you really want to go back you've stayed -- you've stayed at home until I know you are tired now . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> but don't mind it's not so long let me say when this month ends then two or three months would have elapsed . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> you -- you went to school . <no-speech> two months . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm then let me ask you . <no-speech> after results were out you have gone so quiet how did it go ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what are you asking ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm mm . <no-speech> we separated . <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm asking after the results were out you went so quiet yet you were really following %incomplete <no-speech> ahh I don't get the end of your question kindly ask it ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what are you asking ask again for the last time now . <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm I'm listening . I'm -- I'm asking -- I'm asking %incomplete mm I'm listening to you ask . mm I'm getting you now just ask . <no-speech> <no-speech> are you getting me ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh I was asking after the poll results were out why did you go so quiet were you satisfied ? actually sorry (()) I'm in a vehicle at the moment . it keeps disconnecting I'm not getting you clearly . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm -- I'm hearing you though it keeps disconnecting I don't know why . you didn't %incomplete <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> maybe because I'm in a vehicle . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh -- ohh it keeps disconnecting ? <no-speech> mm I'm can hear you now what were you asking %incomplete are you getting me from that end once again ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> are you getting me ? <no-speech> ohh (()) %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> I was asking were you satisfied by the poll results ? -- ohh mm where . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> but now it does not matter if we were satisfied or not I'm using avenues that are required . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm that one . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> that's what they said . <no-speech> <no-speech>
T125 steps to take when you decide to quit work Christian Bwaya, Mwananchi bwaya@mwecau.ac.tz in the previous article we saw the reasons why people quit work and the initial steps to be taken by someone thinking of making the decision to quit work. we saw that it is important to be calm when making serious decisions. a calm self-conscious person does not make decisions that are led by anger or even extreme happiness. look for professional advice in order to achieve decisions based on accurate understanding of things. there are advantages of quitting work by following formal procedures. first, it helps you claim your entitled benefits in accordance with the law. in order to obtain your dues, including any benefits you are entitled to according to the job contract, you will need official documents to confirm that you have quit the job. moreover, respecting the contract also avoids the possibility of you getting into problems after quitting the job. when you quit work without notice for any reason, a dishonest employer could count you as a deserter of duty and accuse you of theft of office property under your supervision. there are workers who just after getting a good job, left in pomp and disregard to their employers. others resigned with a 24-hour notice, believing they had nothing to lose anymore. it was not as they had thought. quit work in a manner that protects your working relationship with the employer. you might not see those benefits today but in future bad relationships might cost you. the new employer might contact your former employer to confirm that it is true that you quit work. if you did not quit in the right procedure, you might find yourself losing the job that you were happy to obtain. in this article we suggest good ways of providing notice of quitting work from your current employer and coworkers. providing formal notice to the employer after ascertaining that you have followed the procedures of quitting work in accordance with the contract, the next step is to make formal communication with the employer that you now quitting work. not many employers would enjoy encountering the issues of an employee quitting work, in a cafeteria. avoid spreading such information before you have officially communicated with the employer. an official notice of quitting work is important, if possible, it should be preceded with face to face talks with the employer. in those talks, your employer gets a chance of receiving the bad news, in an unofficial environment before reading the official letter. in writing the resignation letter, there are several factors to consider. firstly, is to make clear your intentions that you are quitting work. for example, your letter could have subject heading that states, 'RE: Quitting Work'. words like, 'shifting work', 'tired of working conditions', 'switching jobs' could have many interpretations. avoid words that have many interpretations. after showing the purpose of your letter, write a sentence mentioning the last date you worked with your employer. for example, 'I inform you that after great deliberation, at my own discretion, I have decided to make the decision of quitting work in order to get the opportunity to further my education. the last working day is expected to be the Friday of date 03/31/2017.' after mentioning the last working day, show appreciation by recognizing your employer's contribution in improving your experience. briefly mention the opportunities you gained since you started work that you believe that built your skills and experience. it is possible there are things you did not really like in the company/institution that you are leaving. perhaps you had a dispute with your supervisor at work. this is not the time to complain neither a reminder of past slights. use positive language that does not express negative feelings. in line with that, avoid mentioning your new employer or where you are intending to go. the employer does not need to know of your plans after parting with him. conclude your letter by requesting to be informed of any procedures for handing over of office. conclude your letter by requesting to be informed of any procedures for handing over of office. you can also show you are ready for an inquiry as to why you are quitting, giving the employer the opportunity to interrogate you on reasons that made you quit, how you will receive your entitlements, procedures of handing over of office, your readiness to help the new person who will take your place and other matters. informing your colleagues, after the formal agreement with your employer that you are now quitting, what follows is to notify your colleagues. the notice that you are now leaving can evoke emotions of jealousy. when you inform them, respect their feelings. it is true that you have quit and you are going to a better place. maybe even your colleagues would like to go where you are going to. do not make them feel as if they have nowhere to go by remaining with the employer that you are parting ways with. you have no reason for fanfare by words or actions before and after leaving the work station. there is no basic reason to explain why you have left and that where you are going, there are more benefits. also, do not endanger your relationship with the employer you leaving by bad mouthing him to the colleagues that you are leaving. even if it's true he has his weakness, even if the working environment you are leaving is inadequate, you have no reason of explaining that to the workers you are leaving. say positive things. give common reasons as to why you are quitting. quit in a manner that will allow you to continue having good relationships with those you are leaving. remember there is tomorrow! the author is a professor of psychology at the Mwenge Catholic University. 0754 870 815
T124 Wariona names Mwalimu Nyerere's betrayers former Constitution Review Commission chairman Judge Joseph Warioba has said politicians who blame him for betraying the Father of the Nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere about the union are the betrayers since they inserted into the constitution things that contradict the agreements of the union. Judge Warioba has said that the betrayal includes the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar removing the Union Parliament's authority in making the law, recognizing Zanzibar as an independent country and adding things about the Union without following the constitution. he has given that statement following a streak of slander and insults that have been thrown his way by some of the representatives of the Special Parliament for the Constitution from CCM and some of the government leaders after the Commission he led suggested a three government system. speaking two nights ago on a 45 minute program that is broadcast by the ITV Channel, Judge Warioba said the leaders from both sides of government who are blaming him are the ones that disrupted the Union. "Mwalimu left Parliament with full authority, he left one country, he left 11 items of the Union now there are 22, luckily president Jakaya Kikwete explained in parliament that how those items were increased," he said and added: "in determining the increase in the items of the Union is how it was reducing the authority of Zanzibar, 11 items that were left by Mwalimu were inserted constitutionally but these additional ones were inserted unofficially." Judge Warioba said that during his lifetime, Mwalimu Nyerere respected and protected that constitution, the ones who broke it are the betrayers. "now between myself and them, who is Mwalimu's betrayer, had he (Mwalimu) been here, who would have appeared as the betrayer of the Union Government? it is they who have disrupted. what Mwalimu left is different with what is seen now," said Judge Warioba. about parliament Judge Warioba said many development plans made in the Union Parliament are executed on the mainland only. "not only that, that parliament only discusses issues concerning the mainland and does not include the Zanzibar side. Zanzibar on its side also just discusses its own affairs and decides on its own but the name of that parliament is Union," said Judge Warioba. from this environment, Judge Warioba said Zanzibar decided to remove that parliament's authority in the making of the laws through the Zanzibar House of Representatives. the constitution of the United Republic says that laws that are made inside that parliament are used on both sides of the Union, but Zanzibar changed that through their constitution and said that all laws made in that parliament must also pass through the House of Representatives," and added: "they (Zanzibar) did not stop there, they made a constitutional review in 2010 that dismantled the constitution recognizing Zanzibar as an independent country, removed the Union's president's authority to establish districts and provinces in Zanzibar contrary to the Union's constitution, and for that reason Zanzibar broke down the powers of the Union parliament." moreover, he said that the action seemed to practically break down the Union after removing the president's powers and recognize two full presidents in two different countries. "normally, a country has one commander in chief who receives the 21 gun salute, the Union Army salutes two presidents, something that is impossible," he said. Tanzanian's complaints Judge Warioba said Tanzania mainland on its side determined the Tanganyikan's complaints to include missing several opportunities in Zanzibar. "people from the mainland on their part say that Zanzibar takes part in the Union parliament, inspects mainland projects and questions them but they do not have the power to take get involved those things on the Zanzibar side," he said. he added: "even worse, they say that Zanzibaris can own land and get citizenship in the mainland but those rights cannot be found by a Tanganyikan, the only way we saw it's good Zanzibar too should bring its issues inside the union but it was impossible". the issue of statistics Judge Warioba wanted parliamentarians to not be bothered with statistics and instead to answer questions that arise from the partners in the Union. "statistics are not a problem. we have not done a new thing but it was only just as a repeat of the Nyalali Commission. those who question those statistics, did they not see a fault in the opinion statistics of the 20 percent in Judge Nyalali? he said that his Commission went round the whole country accompanied by clerks who recorded on tape, video and writing for the purpose of keeping archives in the Commissions website.
T532 club syn association match evf competition
T531 everyone's right to life should be respected. the right to life as clarified in the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of the year 1977. this is one of the basic things which are supposed to be respected by everyone. this right relates to God's creation as explained in the holy books. in short, human beings are the ones who put the authority principles in the world. section 8 (1), has been clearly clarified that the United Republic of Tanzania is a country that follows democracy principles and societal rights and therefore, (a), the citizens are the principles of all authority and the government will get all its governance and authority from the citizens in accordance to the constitution, (b), the main objective of the government will be the welfare of the citizens and (c), the government will be accountable to the citizens. I have started with a few sections of the constitution which gives rights and accountability to the citizens and the leaders who vow to protect it, so as to build the basis of my analysis. recently, there were incidents where seven corpses tied in sacks were collected from River Ruvu, which aroused many questions with a need for answers as this was not normal. they are disturbing because the statement by the Minister for Internal Affairs Migulu Nchemba earlier said that they were illegal immigrants, while the statement by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, later on, asked for investigations to be done quickly. the order concerns the minister who had already given an answer without investigation, what should we expect? their answers are doubtful because, it is not possible to give simple answers to heavy issues involving people's lives. apart from those killings, reports were made about the killings of people inside the Serengeti National Park who are suspected to have entered for the purpose of poaching. those are incidents where some of the witnesses came out to talk of but comprehensive investigation has not been done. the government's silence against such incidents makes citizens who have put it in power to lose faith with some of the actors, because a person's life is fundamental and should be accorded its weight. if a human being's first right is to life, how is it possible for murder incidents not to be accorded weight by the government as they do when elephants and rhinos die? such conditions are the ones that truly give the interpretation that citizens are the principle of all authority! we witnessed when the rhino George famous as JK's rhino was killed, there was a big operation that cost two peoples' lives and others injured who were involved or not involved in those killings and the government stayed silent about the incidents. the rhino John's issue has emerged, a huge expenditure is being utilized to follow up on including conducting a DNA on the bones, so as to attach it to his horns to verify if he is indeed the one who died, but human killings who by have elected them by principle are not given the same weight. there are many incidents of citizens being killed by elephants which invade farms and human settlements, when they happen, you might not see any government leader arriving at the incident area but if an elephant is killed, the area is not enough because some arrive even in helicopters to search for the killers. for whom are we conserving these animals if those supposed to benefit from their fruits are being killed and the government ends up giving just sentiments while it is officially silent? it should remember that its silence when that issue is bearing orphans and widows who at times are forced to bear the burden through different programs like Tasaf is not right. you will hear government leaders saying they do not want to borrow or beg from outside, but they are not dealing with the difficulties causing the existence of the groups that need aid. the fifth term government distinguished itself to speak for the poor, well and good but which poor are these if people are killed by animals and complain being killed inside the national park and it doesn't focus its energy to determine the truth, now which vulnerable are they speaking for? I beg to be understood clearly that I am not supporting people who are sabotage public property like poaching, but that doesn't take away the fundamental legal right. they are required to be heard and the law to take its course, otherwise those meeting punishment against others outside the court are violating the law and human rights. also, I am not happy with the way the government uses a lot of force when an elephant or rhino is killed, but doesn't use the same force when a human being is killed. it is good for government actors given the good will by the citizens to accord special weight to the right to live issue by ensuring its protection. strict measures should be taken for those violating it because their existence results from the citizens. Antony Mayunga is a writer for Citizen, 0787239480.
T533 is a contest between Shitambala and Mbilinyi September 23, 2015 with approximately 35 days remaining to vote, the contest in the Mbeya town region has remained between the member of parliament who finished his term, Joseph Mbilinyi, and Sambwee Shitambala. those two contestants come from inside two major parties and with the greatest rivalry since the last general elections in the year 2010. those parties are Chadema that is being represented by Mbilinyi and CCM that is being represented by Shitambala. far from their party rivalry, those contestants themselves also have rivalry considering in the past elections, Shitambala vied for parliament for the region of Mbeya villages where after losing he removed himself and moved to CCM. Shitambala knows well that his old party and he is quoted as saying, he knows the tactics that were used by that party to win in the last election. even so, this year's election environment in that region has changed, the enmity that used to be in the party of the revolution is not there again. political analysts of that region recognize that in this year's election the rivalry is big and there is no easy slope for both the parties like in the past election. it is a choice that is defined to be more reluctant than any party will spy on. in the past general election, Mbilinyi was not given a big chance of winning but he benefited from the troubles of CCM in that region where the camp of Thom Mwang'onda is claimed to be unsatisfied with the results of the opinion poll, that way deciding to punish their party by joining Chadema, a step that enabled Mbilinyi to emerge victorious. despite the crisis benefiting Chadema, the power of his presidential candidate in the polls, Doctor Wilbrod Slaa, is also said to contribute significantly to building the party in the region and the Mbeya Region. "people believed in Doctor Slaa, he has a great convincing ability he, had great energy and he could order people to do anything and do," says one Chadema leader in Mbeya province but requested his name protected. there are no such environments this year, that party will be forced to do extra work to succeed in continuing to hold on that region that is among the important regions in the national politics. the divisions that were in CCM which eased Chadema's capture of that region is not there again and Doctor Slaa is not with that party again. troubles resulting from opinion polls are affecting both two parties and for Chadema it is their first test they were not used to, a person joined and was given a chance of vying for a parliamentary position without causing divisions. this time they have entered into the campaign divided again after the opinion polls, those who lost blaming dirty game including the huge usage of money. in the time Chadema are tackling the discomfort of dispute-based conflicts, their opponents have taken rest, the state of hostility is very different from the previous election. in developments that even the leaders of that party did not expect groups did not come out after opinion polls and now they are united in the campaign. the step by members to publicly oppose the coming of some of the politicians from CCM with an aim of being given a chance to contest for leadership, councilor up to the presidency, is message enough that this year, things aren't easy like they were back then. Mwanjelwa aching the heads of the contestants among the areas that are causing headaches to the contestants is the business area of Mwanjelwa. it is a more strategic area with influence to other areas of Mbeya. it is an area that integrates all the city's inhabitants, spending most of their time in the city. one of the CCM party members who contested to be selected by that part for the parliamentary position, Ulimboka Mwakili, says that if you catch Mwanjelwa, you have also held part of Iyela ward, among the biggest wards in that region with very many voters. in addition to Iyela, you also get to have a big influence in wards of Luanda Nzovwe, Isanga and Ilemi, wards also with many voters. in addition to many voters, they are areas whose residents are not people with attachment to parties, but decide according to the persuasion of the contestants, on personality and his ability to tackle challenges. are unpredictable voters. Mwanjelwa, particularly the Kabwe area has become a major stronghold of Mbilinyi since the end of the 2010 general election, whereby that Chadema contestant could issue any order and it is implemented, and to reach a step of the government fearing that area.
T239 our first topic says this is it true that villages lose (()) ? yes and if you consider that every year twenty thousand youth leave the villages to go to towns like Arusha Mwanza Dar es Salaam . (()) young man there maybe I should ask you (()) ? student . no student . is it true that the youth are leaving the villages to go to town ? it is true . alright tell me why ? the youth are leaving the villages to go to towns with an aim of looking for employment . <no-speech> to look for ? to look for employment . employment work . yes . therefore many youths think that they can't find jobs in the villages . therefore they see towns as the places to get work . ahh ahh . many youth leave the villages to come to town because (()) as a result of the conditions that are in the village . (()) for example I am at a point where I can't stand the town life anymore . because I have gotten used to (()) now I see (()) (()) town is good . (()) . what was your reason to leave the village and come here in town ? as a result of the environment . which environment ? I mean getting two hundred two hundred . (()) and electricity also (()) and electricity too you don't have . why do the youth leave leave the villages to go to towns ? the youth are -- are leaving the villages to go to towns they are running away from farming . because farm work spilling soil on the feet they think it is (()) so much he'd rather go to town and wash so as to be seen that he is a developed person . because if he goes to town he knows that it's him who has development . but not in the village . village because there are issues of hard work hard work (()) you do this job you do this job and he does not like doing them . he wants him to wash to -- enjoy comfort . but according to your perspective can you leave the village to go to town ? I can't . why tell us ? because I need to stay in the village because I get help . I farm I do what . everything I -- I get it there . even there in town things come from the farm and enter the town . what harm do you get when your child goes to town ? I think there is a lot of harm . because I have -- my strength is gone (()) . that's why I get harmed . but if it's -- if I have my strength for real I see no reason to -- to stay in town . <no-speech> a youth runs to town . for example the male wishes if only he can -- go to look for work . but the female is running to town after two years she brings me a grandchild . if not so she will do -- what work will she do ? <no-speech> at what time will she beautify her fingers ? and what time will she apply makeup ? and change meat . the way God created her she sees it is not meat . she wants another meat again . that is of to -- that is (()) now how have the villages been affected as a result of the youth leaving the villages and going to town ? brother there the youth to leave to -- the village to go to town maybe (()) how is it that they will feel that that is that (()) that they have despised it . they have despised the village they have run to town as if there in the village isn't suitable . (()) yes that there . and now this it's dive in time let's listen to our expert today what he has to tell us . <no-speech>
T238 183 billions 183/- for special tickets could have bought one Airbus. November 25, 2015 Raia Mwema in Entertainment and Sports in the early nineties our country hosted the Iranian president Rafsanjani during his visit. after being shown around several places of our country, on the day to leave, president Rafsanjan met the media at the airport. it is normal for journalists to ask, but the most surprising thing that day was when Rafsanjan asked journalists to explain to him why Tanzania is poor while it has so much resources which he himself has seen with his own eyes. and honestly, if I were there when the question was asked, I could have stretched a finger and said, "your Excellency president, Tanzania has everything, the problem is Tanzanians!" why? see this example of our neighboring country the Democratic Republic of Congo. according to The Africa Report magazine, 183 billion shillings for tickets for the elect which president Doctor John Magufuli told Tanzanians that they have been used to buy tickets to travel out of country could have been used to buy one big plane, an Airbus and some change would remain. according to Africa Report magazine, the 74th issue of October 2015, which I have read, has news on the 56th page that the government of president Joseph Kabila has bought from the airplane company that went bankrupt, Alitalia in Italy one of its big planes, and Airbus A320 at a cost of 50 million American dollars. the money that our elect have used for tickets to travel out is 183 billion, equivalent to almost 84.1 million American dollars! yes, Tanzania has everything the problem is Tanzanians! we see that in our country most local problems are contributed by some of those whom we guaranteed leadership lacking patriotic hearts. they are people who put personal interest first. this situation has lead to most Tanzanians giving up. there is a time I received a letter from a Tanzanian who lives in Germany. this letter really touched me. I will refer to this letter by putting here the introduction of the relevant letter, then I will say mine. I quote the author of the letter, "hello! my brother Mjengwa, since my understanding of this rottenness of the Tanzanian government I have been crying everyday although it is hard for tears to come out from a grown-up. I am hopeful this problems will one day end but I now see myself losing hope. there is nothing better and as days go by is when corruption grows and the corrupt get born. I ask myself, is there an end to this? or what am I supposed to do to stop crying? I am in Germany but I am ashamed when I am asked where I come from?" end of quote. first of all, the author of the letter and all of us are not supposed to see this in the governments image only. it concerns our actions and our responsibility as citizens who were born in this country. in his speech to open the 11th parliament, President John Magufuli, apart from other things he mentioned that Tanzania is a rich country. I also believe that our country is very rich but its people are very poor. very few are the ones benefiting from the riches of our country. and we are not supposed to leave that thing continue. there are our children in Songo Songo whose parents do not have the ability to educate them while where they live there are investors who harvest our gas and make themselves huge profits, and by evading tax. and there contract for harvesting gas? it is 25 years! a whole quarter a century. our fellow Tanzanians who participated in this corrupt contracts may not be in the world after the quarter century of the investors extracting and clean out our natural gas. we have left our resources to be managed by some of our fellow Tanzanians who have the characteristics of a fox. they are selfish people and lack sympathy on their fellow Tanzanians. that is why we have been hearing of successive scandals: Rada, Richmond, IPTL, EPA, Eskrow, Meremeta and many others. they are scandals that make a few to shine while others deteriorate into a pit of poverty. yes, its base is political discrimination that comes from selfishness and greed for wealth among those whom we sponsored to make big decisions on our behalf. it is a state of the ones we guaranteed leadership to lose particles of patriotism, love for their country. they are people who value their interest and of those around them. they are ready to even use Mafia tactics to meet their objectives.
T237 finger evf anatomy
T236 <no-speech> I am asking you how is it going there in town -- how is it going there in town ? mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> here in town people are just talking politics . how is it going there in town ? <no-speech> <no-speech> here in town people are working they are just taking -- just talking politics . mm %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh -- ohh politics is what is going on ? mm people have -- they are just grouped into groups and just saying O_D_M O_D_M . <no-speech> they want to elect leaders ? <no-speech> <no-speech> okay groups mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I am saying %incomplete even there you seem weak mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> they are saying now these parties of these other two youths %incomplete mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> is not very trustworthy . mm . now I am just hearing them say O_D_M O_D_M . <no-speech> <no-speech> really %incomplete lets just see how they will proceed so long as God gives us a leader . <no-speech> <no-speech> year the leader we will get a good leader . do you hear ? <no-speech> <no-speech> you will get an old leader . we want a good leader not so ? <no-speech> <no-speech> fifty-seven days only remaining . mm it's needed that we get a good leader . <no-speech> <no-speech> not yet or -- just few days . then now we are just there -- we see %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech>
T235 Diamond Platinum bashes the National Arts Council -BASATA Diamond Platnumz has castigated the National Arts Council BASATA for rolling back Tanzanian music by not permitting the introduction of other music awards in the country, aside from Kilimanjaro Music Awards. while speaking at the XXL program on Clouds FM today, Diamond said that this action makes him feel that there is a hidden agenda in that council. "why do we have only one award in Tanzania, it's something that saddens me very much because if you look at even other small countries, we are musically superior but they have more than one award," Diamond questioned. "I do not know what is going on in BASATA". he said if there could be a variety of music awards in the country, there would be positive challenge to the organizers of those awards rather than as it is now whereby KTMA has no rival. "if there are various awards they will learn from others but if there is only one thing every day, then it's just done". on the other hand, Diamond said after the Kili nominations were out, he could not comment on anything since he saw that he had been put in categories that he did not deserve. "if you look keenly if I was not in any category at all how then can I be the best male artist, under what criteria?" he questioned. "now you're telling me that I do not have the characteristics of a member of parliament, councilor, minister, do not have those characteristics and then you make me compete for the presidency now, how will I win then if we can't at the beginning?" "I saw, you know what, I'd better be keep quiet, I did not want to speak because they're not late to interpret you differently, that is why I was not there in those days, to be completely honest".
T234 news reporter Charles Mwakipesile, takes a form to contest the general meeting of CCM Taifa. Rashid Mkwinda. a writer of Business Times Company that publishes Majira newspaper and representative of Mbeya province, Mister Charles Mwakipesile has been among 24 contestants who came out to take forms at the Mbeya district city CCM office to contest for chances of delegates of CCM Taifa General Meeting. Mister Mwakipeshe who was accompanied by the CCM, Publicity Secretary Itiji location Mister Livingstone Mwakapesa, and the CCM Secretary for Mwakibete location Mister George Mapunda, has returned that form in front of CCM Secretary Mbeya district, Mister Raymond Mwangwala and said that he has decided to plunge into politics to bring a challenge to the youth. he has said that CCM is an old party which if it got youthful leaders can correct small defects which are coming out that are challenges coming as a result of the development of multi-party democracy in the country. he said in order to confront challenges, the party needs to have the great strength of the youth who he believes in cooperation with the wisdom of elders it can make a step as a result of its history of leading in peace, calmness for more than 40 years. while speaking during the time of receiving that form, the secretary of CMM for Mbeya district Mister Mwangwala, has said that he is happy to see youths has come out in a large number to take the form and that, up to now the total of 24 members for the party, has come out to take form and brought them back yesterday during the day. Mister Mwangwala has said that every party member has a basic right to vie for any seat of leadership for the purpose of bringing challenges in and outside the party.
T233 100 Tarime drivers, Rorya have fake licenses. written by Samson Chacha Tarime. published: 7th December 2016. more than 100 drivers have been identified having fake license drivers in Tarime and Rorya districts in Mara. after the ongoing police investigation, most of the drivers with fake licenses have packed the cars they were driving but some drive them at night... head of the traffic police squad, Tarime/Rorya Region, Joseph Bukombe said they have examined more than 100 drivers' licenses and identified they are not in the computer system of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). in addition to discovering that, they also discovered they have not been trained on driving at the Vocational Educational and Training Authority institute or those recognized. Bukombe said, "we have identified drunk drivers, who have fake licenses, who do not comply with the road safety act, including speeding. lack of fire extinguishers and insurance and encouraging and educating passengers to give information to the relevant agencies as soon as they discover their driver is drunk or driving at a speed that endangers their lives. he said the drivers are riding small passenger cars between towns and villages of Sirari to Tarime, Nyamongo to Tarime, Nyamwaga to Tarime, Mugumu to Tarime, Utegi to Tarime and Tarime to Shirati and Utegi to Kinesi. he said they have reports that drivers have left their cars and are driving them at night, and wanted them to know that an honest work is sustainable and demanded those with fake licenses to study in Veta so as to get rid of stubbornness as legal action will be taken against them.
T232 oppressive militia police to suffer consequences written by Eric Anthony, Dodoma. printed 08 September 2016 the government has emphasized that it won't hesitate to take action against militia police officers who will be found taking part in oppressive actions on feeder women and other business people, expressed that such actions are contrary to the law. moreover, it has advised business people to do their activities in the officially designated areas by the committee in order to avoid friction with the concerned authorities. the minister for the state, in the office of the president (Tamisemi), Selemani Jafo, has given that position in parliament today in Dodoma when he was answering a question from the special seat parliamentarian, Zianab Vullu (CCM), who wanted to know the government's strategies to prepare a good business environment for feeding mothers to protect them from harassment by militia police in all towns in the country. in her question, she said that more than 30 per cent of the urban residents get their breakfast, lunch and even supper from these feeding mothers, but these important service providers find themselves harassed every day. Jafo said that the government recognizes and values the great contribution from small scale business people who are in this informal sector in growing income and creating employment. in regard to this importance, all authorities have been directed to ensure they set aside areas for these small scale business people, including feeding mothers, close to where the customers are. speaking about militia oppression, he said whatever they are doing is contrary to the 1969's law of assistant police that bars them from beating up, taking or destroying citizen's items or property. he insisted that militia police, as it is to other public servants, are supposed to follow the law, principles and procedures without oppression or abuse whenever they are removing business people from places they are not allowed to operate from.
T231 the best rice cultivation. Imani Lubaba. rice is among the most widely cultivated produce in the world and is also among the most popular products for people from their food and delicious juice. today I will give you a guide on how to cultivate rice like an expert so as to harvest a lot of produce with value. always prepare the field well it's a basic thing to grow without preparing your field well you can't harvest quality products. also there are special steps which a person must follow in order to have quality product. 1. cleaning the field. this is the very first step, you are needed to gather all the waste and crop residues and dumb it in the field so as to prepare for a nutrient fertilizer. once in a while you can collect garbage and burn them whenever it's needed but because burning kills friendly pests. 2. farming. this can work using a hand hoe, a tractor and a plow drawn by a cow. cultivation helps the fertilizer to mix well, good root penetration, good air penetration in the ground as well as water. you are required to dig 10-15cm and also it will help in weeds not to sprout early. 3. making canals. here you have to make solid barriers to help the water not to penetrate out of the canal and the barriers should be long enough to ensure enough water is stored inside the canal. 4. mixing up. in mixing up you should put 3-5 cm of water above sea level and then stir it to enable the water and soil to be well mixed. this can be done with a hand hoe, a tractor, and also a plow drawn by a cow. 5. leveling the farm after mixing up you need to level so that the soil can have the same level and this can be done using a rake. this helps in planting too for reasons it grows in one shape. 6. transplantation of rice. to obtain a lot of yield and to make rice farming beneficial, it is important for farmers to focus on this important approach and to abandon arbitrary cultivation by directing seed directly into the field. in addition, farmers who follow this principles have achieved great success. profits that are found from transplanting rice. the farmer is usually able to choose the best and good seedling while they're in the nursery. the seedlings grow quickly and healthier. small amount of seeds is required. the harvest becomes much. methods of transplanting rice. transplanting in rows. transplanting without following rows (anyhow). transplanting in rows is the best method because it facilitates in weeding and harvesting and you will get good returns because you planted in measurements. preparations for transplanting seedlings. prior to transplanting seedlings in the field it is important to make the following preparations: watering the seedlings to make it easy to uproot them. in order to prevent the seedlings from breaking, the seedlings should be uprooted by holding them from bottom of the stem. avoid uprooting several seedlings at the same time. seedlings should be packaged into small portions so as to facilitate transportation and transplanting in the field select good seedlings only. characteristics of good seedlings they should be of the same length they should have short and turgid leaves, many and healthy roots not damaged by pests or diseases. how to transplant seedlings. seedlings should be held with three fingers as shown in the picture below. transplant between 2 -3 seedlings per hole. for better results, the seedlings should be transplanted in the depth of 2-3 cm. I hope you have learned and known more about rice farming let us meet again next time.
T230 the constitutional review commission continues with the collection of the citizens' opinions whereby the commission has explained facing various challenges in Ruvuma province among them a small number of women participants attending the meetings for collecting opinions . our writer Katherine Nyoni gives us more information . <no-speech> speaking with journalists at Songea municipality the chairman of the fifth group in the constitutional review commission Professor Mwesija Baregu said statistics show that out of eight thousand nine hundred and fifteen who came out to attend the commission's meetings in the two districts of Tunduru and Namtumbo there are only one thousand nine hundred and forty-nine women just equal to twenty-one point nine percent . it's only a few who come and then a few give their opinions . women . and many times for very briefly (()) that is they come or with -- one or two people but when they return we tell the men some times to leave out them out and to write the others because they maybe having a list of maybe twenty issues -- but the women have only two or maybe three issues mostly -- that is important . the national constitutional review commission chairman retired Judge Joseph Warioba has said the commission needs views of women and special groups so that the constitution found will have involved all sides equally . and we got the thoughts of those few who spoke . <no-speech> and they represent the thoughts of women . <no-speech> for example if you talk about -- when we talk about justice the ideas we got from the women are that they want justice -- of equality . if it is owning land if it is to inherit the problems of widows have especially been stipulated very well by women . in this collection of views in Ruvuma province the commission expects to hold not less than seventy-two meetings in a total of seventy-two wards in five districts of Ruvuma province which are Tunduru and Mtumbo Nyasa Mbinga and Songea . Katherine Nyoni T_B_C Songea .
T435 Makete claims, pyrethrum buyers buy at night to avoid paying tax to the committee Rashid Mkwinda Makete district committee Njombe province has claimed that pyrethrum crop buyers have been avoiding paying tax by buying that crop at night and escaping without paying tax to that committee. this has been pointed out by the deputy chairman of Makete district committee Jison Mbalizi when he was contributing to a debate at a meeting of pyrethrum crop stakeholders at the Mid town hall in Makambako town last weekend. "buyers enter Makete secretly at night and buy pyrethrum without paying tax to the committee, that is theft, we are asking that measures be taken against those companies," said Mbalizi. he said that the committee hasn't been paid tax for more than six months while companies continue buying pyrethrum he has that there is need to control that situation which is reducing the committee's earnings that come from produce tax. a resident of Tembela location, Mbeya district William Mwakatobe too said that the pyrethrum board is supposed to look at the system of buyers who are oppressing farmer's rights and said that farmers have been selling pyrethrum flowers on credit and refused to pay the second payment. Mwakatobe said that what is being done by pyrethrum buying companies is to take pyrethrum flowers on credit without paying in so doing causing farmers of that produce not to see the importance of continuing to farm that produce. on his part, the manager of PCT company that buys pyrethrum in Makete district, Martin Oweka said that his company will make an effort of paying the debt being claimed and that there is a problem with their agents in the districts of Makete, Mbeya Vijijini, Ileje, Mufindi and Kilolo. Oweka said that the problem (he didn't explain) has caused owing farmers money and even so they will pay all those debts after an analysis in the near future. "it's not our policy to take on credit, we pay according to statistics, we send money every week, it shows that our agents are the problem," said Oweka. on his part, an advocate from the ministry of agriculture, food, and cooperation Shani Mayosa said that failing to pay farmers and evading tax is an offense and that it's not a wise thing to continue issuing business licenses to buyers who are of no benefit to farmers. furthermore, Pareto Board director Ephraim Mhekwa said that buyers are supposed to take into account, the quality of that crop in order to satisfy international standards and that the government has put in place plans to burn pyrethrum flowers that don't meet standards so that there be discipline in Pareto farming in the country.
T434 <no-speech> <no-speech> was it taken to business ? say offering ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mister . <no-speech> mm I have even found teachers looking for children there %incomplete -- you know %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> they are claiming that even if you're hurt you can't go home that you should be taken by the school . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mmhm some women quarreling nastily . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you know the school should pay for that because the students were in their hands . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm so they should pay for it . <no-speech> mmhm . here -- even the law will be in use father . that driver can be accused of negligence . mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm it's like his job is over . <no-speech> you're saying a job or -- or -- to live in jail ? -- you know children are delicate ? ahh now %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm you know %incomplete <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> because no one has died %incomplete
T437 she is from my in-law, wife of my brother, but her jokes have gone over board. there is a joke of you in laws but the joke of this my in-law is too much, my brothers. one day, I was from my own travel of everyday in the city, when I reached home I found my in-law home, my brother had not yet returned. as always, she started. "then my darling husband what have you brought for me today?" I told her today I don't have anything wife, I will bring for you a big gift and she said don't worry my husband today I have a big gift for you, and I knew it was a joke! Mister left me in the sitting room and enter his room and I also did not stay, I left for my room immediately, I heard my in-law calling me, come here and already I had left and she said come here to my room, I reached but stood by the door, she said come in in-law. heehh! I found her wearing a surprisingly very short dress, she told me, wait I show you the things that I give to you brother, she started sitting in different stimulating styles on the bed, in truth I was unable to understand her, and I asked her, sister-in-law is this also a joke or you are serious. she looked in my eyes and then she continued. when I saw that, I opened the door and left. she called me in anger, I went back to my room and slept. now I am even ashamed to look at my in-law. is this correct stakeholder!
T436 Friday, March 28, 2014 Toggenburg - the best type of dairy goat this is a type of dairy goat whose origin is Switzerland in the area of Obertoggenburg as it is called, this is the oldest dairy goat. here in Tanzania they are found in Uyole, SUA and Tengeru (all of which are veterinary colleges) production these goats are capable of producing an average of two liters of milk a day or more, not as much milk as Saanen except their milk contains between 3% - 4% fat nature these goats have an average size but are larger than a traditional goat, 55 kilograms per female and 75 kilograms per male, have brown (khaki) brown until brown they also have two lines on their face color of milk or white from top to the nose (like duma) have big udder and are also parents and good caregivers, often able to produce twins weather these goats are not able to withstand hot temperatures, but they do well in cold areas like regions of Mbeya, Iringa, Ruvuma, Njombe, Dodoma, Singida and so on they need sufficient food to give more milk, and the food has a full supplement. although they can also be reared in areas of drought and they could do well (good foragers) character these goats live in escaping groups or enter the crop field so they all go and learn it very easily this makes it easy to teach them to be milked by a machine
T431 6 workers at the ferry dismissed. written by the special correspondent, Mwanza. printed: 13th October 2016 the Chief Executive of Tanzania Electrical, Mechanical and Electronics Service Agency (TEMESA), Doctor Mussa Mgwatu, has ordered the manager of Temesa Mwanza, Ferdinand Mishamo, to fire six staff members at the Mv Kome ferry and to issue a warning to the other two staff members for leaving their work stations without the permission of their supervisor. Doctor Mgwatu gave the order when he made a surprise visit at the Temesa station in Mwanza and visited the Mv Kome area that provides transport services between Kome and Nyakarilo in Sengerema, Mwanza. he also ordered the Temesa manager in Mwanza, Mishamo to make sure that workshop and ferry workers are held responsible in order to stop laziness from emerging. manager Mishamo admitted that there had not been any written permission given to the workers to be absent from work that day. "chief executive, I did not receive any letter from the workers asking for a day off from the site" insisted Mishamo. Mishamo mentioned that the workers who had been laid off are four guards Apolinary Kapulula, Marwa Nchagwa, Msomi Stanley and Joseph Mtokambali. also included was sailor Geoffrey Biseko and the cash collector of that ferry, Elisha Mbondo. he mentioned that the men who were given a strong warning were the head of Mv Kome ferry services, Elias Mabushi, and the ferry driver, Juma Bugingo.
T430 <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh not that way we haven't been missing with badness . <no-speech> really it is with badness . work -- it is work that has become too much maybe if we get a chance to come visit you . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> alright when will you come ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> maybe -- maybe I tell the children's mother -- we plan ourselves and then -- I will be able to explain to you %incomplete <no-speech> ohh . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> when we will come . ahh we are here we're just holding together with life . <no-speech> we are enjoying life . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> no . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> not so %incomplete work -- work -- how are you faring with work ? <no-speech> <no-speech> work is fine even just this time that's when I left I didn't go today . mm . <no-speech> alright . <no-speech> ohh . <no-speech> <no-speech> and children ? <no-speech> ahh my children have grown big these days . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yeah the first has reached -- has reached form of -- of -- of two . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm and how are yours ? ohh . <no-speech> that is good . <no-speech> <no-speech> yours they -- yours how are they faring on ? mmhm mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mine -- mine are safe %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh . <no-speech> it's -- it's Junior has been a little sick but this time he's doing well . mmhm how has he been sick ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> how is he sick ? mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> how is he sick that is malaria what ? mm he had -- he had just -- he had little typhoid mm but now he has been treated he has received treatment %incomplete <no-speech> ahh . <no-speech> <no-speech> alright . <no-speech> and he's safe . <no-speech> ahh me I am fine . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> ahh . <no-speech> alright now I reached home and I greeted the old man %incomplete now %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> these days where do you work ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> these days where is work ? I hear these days you're developing . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm at this time I am at -- I am at work in Mombasa . <no-speech> Mombasa . mm but is not -- I heard wife told me you came to Nairobi for a while to visit them or ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . not me -- me -- I visit -- me I come like these holidays I am usually around . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> no ahh . <no-speech> if there is I have a little time from work %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . I am passing coming home %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> mmhm ahh that is good now you leave him much alone that way . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech>
T433 fugitives syn person escaping from the law or pursuer
T432 (()) I would like to know personally on your side . have you ever lived a life of lack of money and of having money ? <no-speech> the life of -- first -- a woman has two things -- two of importance . first is her family . that is me I want when I leave to return home my children when they receive me how do they receive me ? what do they do ? it hurts when you don't have money . the other thing is to do development . leave alone those with of three and four I want good shoes I want good clothes those are of three of four of five . but on my side I see the major needs of a woman are to care for her family and to -- and to invest more in order to that is to fulfill her goals . therefore I once lived a life without out money . you desire very much you go up to -- to your account you say this way rally here do I take money ? no here me I have goals . I remember I once went to take money from a child's account . I lacked money . the child's school account %incomplete it forced -- that is as regards borrowing there for goals I'd rather -- I take here from the child I'll return . have you reached in that situation ? that is you look at you yourself you look at your things you look at your family children that is you want (()) maybe you don't have money . what do you do ? -- and there is no difficult life like that of dependent on a man . you -- you before you haven't -- for example before you start asking for money there %incomplete because you know a man should normally just give you without you asking . if it's your husband . you mean you're not supposed -- it has now reached a situation of you begging . you start thinking if I'm really going when I reach here what do I start saying ? on my side how am I going to ask for money ? that is therefore . me maybe a person usually knows -- knows maybe in a week he usually gives you a certain amount of shillings . you don't have money . that money isn't enough . do you understand ? that's why we are required as women to stand on our feet . tomorrow -- today he's there -- tomorrow he isn't there . who will give you ? therefore the state of not having money is difficult . it is very difficult . Hilda thank you very much for your time I have faith that a lot of what you talked about will build many women . but finally I would like you to put it boldly . put a line . put it boldly -- so that they understand completely . and there have been very many slogans that say a woman is able . I don't know on your side now as we finish what do you say ? what do you tell this woman ? is she able ? <no-speech> first of all I don't like that statement that says that we women can I don't like it because all men are not successful . <no-speech> and if as a person you know what you're doing why should you say a woman is able ? work . -- if a woman succeeds let's not start saying that she works like a man . let's say that sister has worked and she's successful . do you know ? that's the thing that I want to tell women that we should put aside our daily advice that we women are able . why should we women be able to ? it means we will be not able to which day won't we be able to ? there are women from those years as single parents who are educating their children . a mother who is alone is educating her children well . she lives a life -- and they live a good life -- they have very big projects . they are stable with big companies and they are billionaire owners . why should we today start encouraging ourselves that we women are able ? mm . those things -- those challenges were there . (()) our parents . if our parents were able to go to school and they learned . my mother is a teacher . until it got to a point where my mother retired at sixty years . today how can I start saying a woman is able ? I know -- all of us are there and we are required to work to fulfill our goals . fine it's only a woman who can do that isn't an excuse to me . Hilda I thank you very much and me I just assure you that I have faith the next one year . Hilda you will be a different Hilda . all these that right now you shared with us you have an office at home that's where you start -- you start you look for tenders you'll have tenders that you reject . he's not a prophet but because I stand on the rules of development and success I know of a person who follows those rules . his success is a must . yeah therefore you -- apply those rules . and that is what is required of any person . you can't say I want God to help me and you're seated . God has said I'll bless the work of your hands . therefore you're following those rules that you'll be blessed . thanks amen . thanks . the viewer of our hook program %incomplete Tanzanian woman -- my fellow woman to live without money is a disgrace because you know . if you ask whoever you're asking can decide to give or not give you and you can't plan the time you want him to give you . you can have a problem today and he gives you after one week . even that problem ended . therefore to live without an income is a disgrace . especially when you're a mother -- a woman with her family . I understand many women get a lot of problems because they have no income . many are asking how will I start ? how will I start ? Hilda has said the house she lives in is her office . why there people who live outside ? doesn't everyone have their house ? why don't you start from home ? it is possible . therefore I ask to encourage you through today's program and through Hilda who has motivated us in a big way . the work that remains is on your side . even God says in his books that he who doesn't work shouldn't eat . and in the same way he says he will bless the work of our hands . now if you're seated what will he bless seriously ? or do you just want to blame God for nothing ? therefore my fellow woman I am asking you that if you meet Hilda on the road after one year to tell her that your life changed when you saw her on the hook . that is the main thing . therefore me I thank you very much for watching our hook program . my name is Joyce Kiria . let's meet another time in this program in order to be able to continue opening each other's minds and thoughts in the whole issue of building your dreams and how to start reaching them . thank you very much . <no-speech>
T439 reduce syn curtail accident syn mishap
T438 leaders are contemplating before making a decision the criteria of good leadership are many and cannot be counted with the fingers. but some of those criteria are fundamental and if one of them has a shortcoming, the reputation of a better leadership that is just and legal, staggers, breaks down or completely disintegrate. among the important criteria of good leadership is to have a system of leadership and a judicial process that is known without controversy and not one that changes like the weather condition at the Indian Ocean. when there is a doubt which eventually leads to a person's ignorance of the future or the release of an advertisement from now on, this is unacceptable, then the good governance becomes increasingly unfounded and unreasonable. nowadays in the country, even weather forecasters cannot predict when the sun goes down in the evening and rise tomorrow morning, what incident will transpire! we recently experienced police force in the country developing many coastal areas and its centers by installing investment centers. businesspersons who wanted to use those areas were invited and many showed up to be given those sections and eventually a couple of them were given and they abandoned the contracts that were exploiting them. immediately after the workers were given those sections, they did great transformation including installing various equipment such as air conditioners that are needed for their businesses. however, we are suddenly getting news that the giving out of those sections to private businesspersons results in insecurity. Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Yusuf Masauni arrived in Zanzibar and demanded that the shops which were given to businesspersons in various areas close to the police stations to be taken back and be refunded their monies for rent. there emerge many issues, but the most important is that security of the nation being addressed here, why was it not seen the whole time and even when it was decided to be allocated to private traders to undertake their ventures? another issue that needs to be addressed here is that there are contract agreements for renting the shops and because the contract is being terminated, will there be payments to compensate for that decision that disregards the contracts? and who will decide the amount of cash compensated? requiring these businesspersons to close down the shops and take out their commodities is not just because many do not have a place to keep them. it should also be remembered that most of them used millions of shillings to construct those shops and majority were given the fields and used millions of shillings on construction. refunding these traders money for rent alone is being unfair to them. those shops are now packed with commodities including those bought on credit. will the police force buy those products by considering that when these individuals are chased away they don't have an alternative place to sell them. some of the traders who are supposed to be evacuated are those who had been expelled from the Darajani region of Unguja last year and encountered losses of millions of shillings. now while settling after getting an alternative place to continue with their lives, they are told, "move out immediately!" surely, if this is not abuse, then what is it? the Ministry of Internal affairs should seriously consider its point of wanting to oust businessmen whom it welcomed and suddenly it wants them displaced claiming that they are not required in those sections. this action causes people to build up a notion that our laws exist in name only and that those deals can be reversed at any time by those wielding power and authority. this is not a good system of governance and it gives confidence to those who recently joined to argue that nowadays the government makes a decision without regard to the law and the circumstances of life of its people. when an order is given to break the house, they no longer have patience to care about those with small children. furthermore, this trend discourages investors as they will always not be sure if after spending a lot of money to put up a project they maybe told at any time to close up their stakes and leave immediately. other times you hear that such move was considered as they lacked patriotism or their presence would endanger national security. sometimes such a decision is not exactly the order of the government directly, but it comes from an individual leader and who do so for reasons known to him. it is good to build a culture that assures safety to entrepreneur's money that he has invested and not have a system whereby investors seem to guess and that there is no guarantee for the security of their money. if we do not cease this trend of haphazardness and orders we will find ourselves requiring local and foreign businessmen to invest, but no one will respond to our call because there is no guarantee of financial security. we must have a system of law that is clear and that cannot be set aside or turned upside down by orders from the leaders on grounds of national security or public interests. good governance is not managed by orders or instructions from leaders. this is not an era of a leader waking up one morning to say, "from today this and that ban is legitimate." leaders are required to abide by the existing law and not legislate what they see appropriate for our country. if we have a law that we see has a weakness to be amended or if we want to formulate a new law then it is the work of Parliament and the House of Representatives and not the leader. these days, even kings and sultans have abandoned the dictatorial style of leadership. many of them nowadays use the legislative bodies whose representatives have been chosen by the people in one way or another. this is because it is acceptable and there is no dispute that it's the public that dictates how the country is to be rule and that is why they are called citizens, implying those who own the country. leaders are just workers for citizens who carry out those things that they (citizens or the country) want done at that time and in future. in the event of an authoritative leader who uses powers that interests him is labeled a dictator, that is one who gives orders and demand it implemented as does a school teacher during a dictation class. students just write what is being pronounced by the teacher and they do not have a right to ask a question or hesitate. this is what led to this kind of leadership and no matter the type of cosmetics used on it for it to be attractive, it is still called dictatorial governance. we do mistakes and we should accept by correcting and having a system of governance that is open, proactive and judicial and not leaders who every day chatter on this and that or give orders to this or the other to be dealt with because he is not "our colleague." let us allow the laws that we formulated to do its work and those who violate them be legally dealt with by those mandated with the responsibility of implementing the various laws that we instituted in our country. among institutions that society expects to be at the forefront to ensure that it does things legally and not to be lead by orders, as we have in the police force parade. email: barasteki@gmail. com
T446 mother raising 7 blind people requests for 60,000/= written by John Gagarini, Kibaha. published 04 November 2016 a mother raising a family of 7 blind people, Mwajuma Nasoro (66) a resident of Simbani in Kibaha district at the coast is in the process of requesting for a 60,000 shillings assistance for the purpose of taking her grandchild Majid Maulid, who is in class two at the Irente Primary School for the blind that is in the Tanga province. speaking to this newspaper at her home here in the city, she said that the school her grandchild attends is expected to close at the end of December this year and that she has been the one taking him to and from school. she said that since June this year, an arrangement was set for parents or guardians to bring and take their children while in the previous years they were transported by their teachers bringing and taking them once school was closed. 'I have begun an early request for people who are able to help since we do not have the ability and we have been asking for contributions from various people for the fare to take him," said Mwajuma. she said the situation is very difficult as there are times they find themselves having only one meal due to the real situation as it is, whereby they have had a life of chance as a result of not having any special activity. "we depend on the burning and selling of charcoal together with weaving mats which help us in getting income and cash for food for my family," said Mwajuma. in addition, Laila Nassoro, the child's mother, who also is blind said that when the time comes for bringing or taking him to their school it's a great challenge because they depend on begging people to contribute to get the funds. she said her son is doing well educationally because last year he led the class by being number one and in the sixth month this year he held the second position, something that gives them comfort that he could become the savior of the family.
T447 Emmanuel Reuben is an executive general secretary of the party . he says that the ladies who does the work of selling their bodies look at them in three colleges . my call from the government and different well-wishers people who are watching this program is that we have a challenge of tools . is that the machines are few in comparison to the project we had asked because the project was like the first everything once that you succeed because I had gotten it from the ladies . therefore we have lack of tools because machines that we had are five or four machines . then for twenty ladies it still becomes difficult but not just them . still others who were abandoned are children in the estates need to be taught higher mathematics we are targeting the ladies among the age of fifteen to twenty-five now these ladies with twenty in Tanzania you find a certain place is a mother and family but had already undergone . especially them also we feel that when the projects expands we get a person to help us with tools like tailoring machines events and together with material cloths to help many women (()) . therefore my call to the government and the different well-wishers is to look for ways to help those ladies to form a nation that is good good generation because those children that are being given birth to by these ladies are those will later turn to become reliable in government . if you consider these children many of these ones are not going to school till they are taken to school because mother does not have the ability of taking them to even nursery class one itself is costly . therefore you will make a bad foundation . therefore whoever have the ability all to be able to help this station we welcome you to come and help . <no-speech>
T420 shame a wife caught having sex in husband's bedroom a scuffle has ensued after a man who was mentioned by one name, Samora, caught his wife Hadija live betraying him by breaking the sixth commandment with a lover in the Holy Month of Ramadhan, and in their own bedroom. news from reliable sources revealed that Samora and Hadija are a couple that got married in the Boma in Magomeni, Dar in 2009 and in their marriage they have been blessed to get one male child. the act of surprise happened in the Kinondoni-Kwamsisiri region of Dar in the couple's home, around 7pm, July 29, this year. reports say that at the beginning of this year, the marriage between the two collapsed and degenerated into a disagreement where together with putting things straight they went on fighting every now and then. it was claimed that the source of conflict between the two arises from the husband suspecting that the wife was cheating. it is said that later whisperers followed Samora and told him that his wife has been having a love affair with another man out of their wedlock and that is why she has been bringing him trouble. it went on to be claimed that after the marriage broke, Samora became weak and depressed and thus he had to run away from his matrimonial home and went to live with his parents. it was said that Samora returned while conducting thorough investigations using neighbors to give him information about every man who entered and went out of his home when he was not present. Samora's investigation determined that Hadija was playing out their marriage with a man who was identified by one name of Rwekaza who is an employee in the government. in depth reports said that Samora was informed that the man was moving in a Suzuki Swift 1.3 and some days he would spend the entire night without a bit of shame that Hadija was someone's wife. after getting this confirmation is when Samora organized himself by getting area youth so that when Rwekaza arrives at the house to sleep with his wife they attack him and do him in. unaware that he was anxiously being waited for around 7pm, Rwekaza arrived in the home and went straight to the bedroom as he was used to. while in the bedroom, it is alleged that they went on with their activities while Rwekaza's belly was out and his pants' zipper was undone while Hadija had stripped and was only in her underwear and tied one scarf around her. in that ambush, Samora stormed into the room accompanied by a group of youths who only had one aim: to harm Rwekaza. while in the room, there ensued a huge scuffle after Samora witnessed his mate who had taken an oath of never separating from him betraying their love live. after seeing great pollution in the room, our reporter informed the police from Kwamsisiri Station who arrived in the area to do a good and big work of avoiding trouble or murder because Samora was very angry. to prove that she was his lawful wife, Samora went into the cupboard and produced their marriage certificate and photographs that were taken on their wedding day showing them with smiles of 'you and I forever' before the devil 'did his' in their Union. according to the neighbors, the incidence shocked many while believing totally that it is very rare for incidences of ambushes to happen during the fasting period. surely, even in the Holy month? it is very shameful for a woman to bring another man into her husband's room. really, this ambush is really a strike-back," one of the villagers who witnessed the incidence was heard saying shortly after breaking the fast.
T445 Sumaye reminds of Mkapa June 04, 2015 former prime minister, Frederick Sumaya has said all the ministers who were in the council of ministers of the third phase government are responsible for all the decisions made then. Raia Mwema has been told that in its meeting with the media that was arranged to take place in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Sumaye shall explain that there is no minister who can refuse to be part of the decision when he did not resign his position then. some of confusing decisions of the third phase government were selling of state houses to servants, buying a plane for the president and a radar to guide the plane which all arose a discussion that time. "everything that sparked discussions while I was the prime minister were done in agreement inside the council of ministers. no minister can say he did not hear. "I will be surprised if there is anyone who will come to say he did not participate in the decisions made when he was in the council that decided and he did not resign to disagree," said Sumaye. Sumaye was expected to talk to the media yesterday to announce his aim of running for presidency in Tanzania through CCM. for a period of ten years of president Benjamin Mkapa's reign, Sumaye was the prime minister and till now, he is the one with a history of holding that position for the longest time than all the others since Tanzania became independent. because he was the succeeding minister, some of his political opponents can decide to bring down more blame on him and his explanations have an aim of answering those kinds of beatings that will emerge. together with those challenges, Sumaye will also use that opportunity to explain his success he found at that time that gives him more qualifications of succeeding president Jakaya Kikwete than his opponents. some of the qualities are knowing the country and its needs well, the ability to raise the economy, integrity and experience in leadership.
T58 executive in custody for misuse of public funds written by Veronica Mheta, Longido. published 26 October 2016 the manager of the council of Longido district, Juma Mhina has commanded the district police to arrest and imprison Galai Lumbwa's ward executive, Paulo Lucas, accused of misusing money contributed by the residents in the region with an aim of improving educational sector. after Lucas evaded police time after time, finally yesterday the directive was implemented in the village of Ilchang Sapukin in the ward of Galai Lumumba, during the public meeting of Arusha's provincial commissioner Mrisho Gambo. before Lucas was arrested, citizen Anni Mollel thanked Gambo for going to the region to witness the real state of the construction of the Secondary school for which the citizens raised funds of more than 96 million shillings, but funds were not spent as intended, instead government leaders and village chairpersons used them for their own benefit. after Mollel's speech, Gambo asked director Mhina why they have not taken legal steps to arrest the accused, that is when Mhina said in public that the directive was initially impossible after Lucas escaped the director time after time. he was arrested yesterday at that meeting. the council's internal auditor, Mwajuma Mndaira, in her report that she released in the meeting said that she had a discussion with the village chairmen to establish why they collected money from citizens without using documented receipts. she also said that they are currently continuing with inspection of the documents and complaints to determine who Lucas colluded with and why did he change some of the uses since some of the tourist hunting companies including Wingert Windrose Safaris (WWS) and Kilombero Nothern Safaris company gave 400 bags of cement for the construction of a secondary school. she said when they were at the site where the secondary school is being built, they determined that despite the bags of cement being given, only 44 had been used while 144 had been sold and they claimed that they sent another 216 bags to the construction of labs and classrooms which were dilapidated. also, after doing the initial investigation, she directed the Civil Engineer to go to that place to evaluate the construction to determine whether it was really used in that construction or not since that executive took some of the resources and sold them knowing that it was against the intended purposes. Gambo questioned the executive as to why the citizens did not have a Secondary school. he said that children from pastoral communities and others need education and they walk long distances to look for education while he (Lucas) and other leaders misuse public funds. Lucas in his defence said that the funds were used correctly and he was forced to divert some of the funds to build laboratory buildings, a kitchen, dormitories and others. he continued defending himself that he used the funds together with other leaders in helping the construction of the secondary school which is not yet complete.
T59 "don't turn parliament into an action field like in Bongo movies" Mark Mwandosya the acting leader of government business in parliament, Professor Mark Mwandosya has wanted members of parliament not to turn parliament into an acting area, as a result of their opinions that they present when they give their contributions. he gave that opinion yesterday after there were heated exchanges between members of parliament when they were debating the motion on approving the basic treaty and regulations of public service and administration in the African continent, which was sent to parliament by the Minister in the Office of the President (Management of Public Service) Celina Kombani. those who are abusing AG Professor Mwandosya rebuked members of parliament for using unnecessary speeches and gave an example of some members of parliament who attacked the Attorney General, George Masaju and said that action has no profit to the welfare of that parliament. that politician reminded members of parliament that AG is the only person, who enters into all the pillars of authority which are government, parliament and the judiciary, an issue whose importance he wanted them to see. there are members of parliament here who stood and rebuked the Attorney General that he isn't their lawyer, so he shouldn't correct them. "I am saying here we are wrong, this is our lawyer here in parliament" said Professor Mwandosya. he said even if members of parliament have their parliamentary lawyer, he doesn't enter parliament, therefore they must listen to the advice of the Attorney General when they are in various debates. let me say that none is above the law, but under the law, there is an Attorney General, we better respect him," said Professor Mwandosya. respect in parliament also he wanted members to tolerate one another and abandon surprising speeches, which can make the citizens believe that parliament is an acting field. "well let's not make the citizens believe that parliament is an acting field, here we are honorable and we are wanted to respect each other and tolerate one another," said Professor Mwandosya. earlier, before that speech from Professor Mwandosya, the Member of Parliament for Muhambwe Felix Mkosamali (NCCR-Mageuzi) attacked the Member of Parliament for Lushoto, Doctor Henry Shekifu that he can't give arguments with substance in parliament because he has fake academic certificates. that speech from Mkosamali came out of Doctor Shekifu having called that member of parliament a child, therefore he should have respect for some members of parliament and for the things that are done by the government of CCM. they engaged in an exchange in parliament as a result of that speech, Mkosamali stood up and asked to inform that member of parliament "honorable chair I am asking the member of parliament to stop calling me a child, I am a member of parliament who won with many votes and I lead a region like him." "I am a member of parliament here and not a child, firstly this member of parliament doesn't know anything because he has never refuted the book and Msemakweli whom he is accusing of having a fake degree and so can't contribute a basic thing to this bill," said Mkosamali. that speech by Mkosamali made Doctor Shekifu stand up and say he has forgiven that member of parliament because his speeches show that he is still a child.
T541 banana hyp fruit
T540 an ardent fan of highlights surprises residents. Ichaweri, Gatundu. the area's rooster surprised customers in a bar when he quickly ran off with a highlights page that he removed from the copy of the Daily Nation belonging to a customer. it is said that the guy is a fan of the highlights page but he didn't have money to buy his own copy of the paper. on the day of incident, one secondary school teacher was relaxing at the bar reading the highlights column in the Daily Nation newspaper. the teacher and his friends were discussing many exciting incidents that had been published in this newspaper, while taking alcoholic refreshments. this rooster was attracted to the teacher's and the friends' discussion and borrowed the newspaper to read. without hesitating the teacher handed Jombi the newspaper and the guy moved closer to the door where there was enough light. suddenly, the guy pulled out the highlights page, folded it and put it in his pocket and returned the newspaper to the teacher. after doing so, he went outside and took off like a horse at a competition. efforts by the teacher and his friends who had come to drink together, to search for the rooster after realizing he had stolen the page were futile as he was never found again. it was not revealed immediately how things went when the rooster and the newspaper owner met later on. by our writer.
T543 meet with Prezzo's circus to the beauties! Jackson Ngechu Makini 'CMB Prezzo' was born on Wednesday January 09, the year 1980. he's a Kenyan legendary rapper who was one of the stars who represented their countries in the Big Brother Africa 'StarGame', 2012 competition. if you didn't know, the guy was born in Nairobi 33 years ago, he lived a neighborhood life in the Eastleigh area and he'll be one of the best musicians who'll give an exciting entertainment at the 2013 Hope Festival, which will close the Dar es Salaam neighborhood and its outskirts at the National Stadium on July 7 this year. Prezzo is a big musician, who started to 'hustle' in music for many years, he became famous in the first years of 21st century. together with facing many obstacles, the star came to shine after his songs were accepted by thousands of his fans who were listening, requesting them in various radio stations and televisions while attending his open concerts and clubs. his first album is Naleta Action which he released in 2004 with popular songs like Naleta Action, Let's Get Down, Mahangaiko, Leo ni Leo, Mimi na Wewe, Mafans among other hit songs. in that album, the guy featured his mother who sang several lines in one of his songs. the album sold several copies and made Prezzo believe that he had accepted East Africa as a result of his type of emotional songs. Prezzo is known because of his expensive life style that he loves for example wearing expensive chains, clothes, vehicles among other expensive things. later adult person Prezzo was included in the song 'Tazama Mbele' of his once lover of that period which was produced by Ennovator of Samawati productions while the video was managed by Tedd Josiah. that song performed well by being position one for eight weeks in various East African radio and television stations. in 2006, Prezzo released a new Prezzo single in which his video was managed by Ted Josiah of Blu Zebra. the video was good but it was criticized with allegations that it was produced at a very costly fee of 500,000 Kenya shillings. there was no video which had spent that amount of money during that period. there passed a little silence, as he continued to hit all shows inside and outside of East Africa, Nigeria, and Europe. he later continued with the pattern of releasing one song after another like Liqher, My City My town, Unataka Nini, 4sho 4shizzy in which he featured Ulopa, Nipe Nikupe featuring AY and Celebration of life which he recently released featuring Chess. Big Brother Africa 'StarGame' 2012 Prezzo joined the competition of BBA 'StarGame' 2012 after seeing that it was something that would give him many challenges in life. apart from desiring money, he wanted to be seen in big television stations in Africa for 24 hours and seven days for he is someone who likes to be seen that he is 'attention'. he says, he loves watching television and movies like Scarface and the people he aspires to be like in that industry are Al Pacino and Mos Def of the river. he eats everything apart from a stool. the book he loves is 48 Laws of Power. he wants to become like Obama who loves Kenya is Nairobi it does matter whether is North or South as long as home is home. he wishes to be like President Barack Obama of America because he believes in himself and he can do what was impossible to become possible because of influence he has. the love life in romantic matters CMB Prezzo has become a topic of discussion during his celebrity period and many other things have been said. Prezzo and Sheila, if we leave his early days as a baby of babies, Prezzo turned to be a topic of discussion after he emerged with a beautiful lady from Kenya, Sheila Mwanyigha 'Nikki'. it is true that the two have been together for long while going 'out' and in various activities using a convoy of expensive vehicles such as Limousine like president. there was a time it was explained that he was the first musician to use a helicopter in East Africa while some said the helicopter was his mother's. in addition to being with Nikki for a long time, suddenly there was silence while allegations emerged that he married secretly. however, when he was announced that he is going to BBA, news emerged that he has another wife by the name Huddah Monroe 'The Lady Boss' who represented Kenya in BBA this year before she was removed in the first week while Prezzo and Goldie were at construction in BBA, Prezzo was alleged to have a love affair with a participant from Nigeria, musician Goldie who was unconscious few days after the completion of the competition while there was a news that the two are planning to have a 'big' wedding. Prezzo, Diva and The Boss Lady, a few days after Goldie had died, Prezzo partied in Bongo because he is a friend to the likes of Ambwene Yessayah 'AY' and then there emerged claims that, he fell in love with Loveness Malinzi 'Diva' of Clouds FM. there ware a lot of stories, Diva got kicked from news agencies in East Africa and other places. while that was going on, recently there emerged another drama. this time The Lady Boss came out alleging that Diva had snatched her love hence proving that in addition to old age, Prezzo was favorited by ladies!
T273 know ways of getting friends. every time I write about friendship I always remember an incident of two military friends. their squad went to war, were attacked and came back to their camp with bodies of the dead and with many injured. one of the friend was saddened because he did not see his colleague friend even though he searched for him among all the dead and the injured. he was saddened and went to the commander of the troop to request to go back to the battle ground to search for his friend. the commander replied by saying, "there is no need because you won't find your friend alive. you may even lose your life." nevertheless, that young man continued insisting on his mission until the commander allowed him. he went there and upon returning, he was in a critical condition. when the commander asked whether he saw his friend he said, "I have found him in a critical state and he is about to die. when he saw me, he looked at me with tears flowing, he held my hand and said, "I knew you my friend, will come to see me before I close my eyes. now that you've come, I will die in piece. then he died while holding my hand. even though after that, I was saddened in my heart, I didn't feel. the incident of two friends.
T272 <no-speech> good morning T_B_C One viewer and welcome to news reports with I your reader Rahel Mhando . <no-speech> citizens from the five wards of Itagata Masoko Kasiba Maksukulu and Msasani ward in Rungwe district Mbea province have asked the government to complete the clean and safe water project which has stalled for six years now . the heads have told delegates of the parliamentary permanent committee on water and livestock that they have been getting promised over and over that the project will be completed but they have run out of patience . more reports with our journalist Siacheo from Mbea . <no-speech> the Masoko water project which is being implemented by the ministry of water at a cost of more than four billion and seven million which is being constructed by the constructor Osaka Store and Construction since the year two thousand and nine has not been completed until now . since the year seventy-two . <no-speech> we're burning twigs by the roadside here for the sake of getting water . <no-speech> but the results of what is going on is invisible . and that is why we the citizens from Kisiba Masoko wards and other wards using the water think it might be a child's trick and until now it won't be implemented . for sure personally my own trouble is that I desire to get out of marriage . because the difference between us with the Kera people is that they are till using cows while we use hands . from the farm a man needs water . the annoying thing is that I to put water in the bathroom for the man which I fetch from far . we are really praying for that we are really praying for water which is my nuisance . if there are thieves in between what measure has been taken against them ? Mdomba do not set a trap which we won't get into . if the money came in then where did it go to ? this measure has made the deputy chairman of Rungwe District Council Ezekiel Mwakota to give detailed instructions on the stalling of that project which is being waited for by the residents of fifteen villages in Rungwe district . the project was crafted at four point seven billion and seven hundred . <no-speech> the funds that came do not even exceed one million -- one billion and five hundred million . they can't reach . <no-speech> now what do we do ? <no-speech> we have said that the government is dragging us into crises . the municipality gets sued . <no-speech> many contractors have worked without pay . <no-speech> lest we take the citizens' sentiments that we will build projects then fail to execute the projects . <no-speech> while accompanying the delegates of the permanent parliamentary committee on agriculture water and land Professor Peter Msola has been saddened by the water committee for awarding all jobs to one contractor and as a result he claims he's unable to do the jobs . that contractor . <no-speech> this project is very big . <no-speech> it shouldn't have been implemented by one person one contractor . <no-speech> he has been given the task of building the water source . <no-speech> he has been given the work of building dams . <no-speech> he has been given the job of laying pipes . <no-speech> we're saying these three jobs should have been done by three different people . <no-speech> the one building wells should just build wells . <no-speech> the one laying pipes should have just done that job . <no-speech> the one building the source should have done that job . from Rungwe province Mbea I am Wasechewa T_B_C . <no-speech> %incomplete
T271 <no-speech> mmhm . the previous Sunday . didn't we have the game on Sunday ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm mm mm . mm . there are boots that he bought there on Sunday and there are those he was using . <no-speech> so maybe the ones that he was using . the ones he used to come with to the grounds . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm . maybe those ones now . so now will you tell him I'm the one who wants or you will -- you will speak for yourself and then %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> now if I personally ask and my feet are %incomplete <no-speech> Jonto friend -- friend my feet friend %incomplete okay then for %incomplete <no-speech> and Oti's feet my friend . <no-speech> perhaps I will -- I will personally know how I will ask for them . <no-speech> okay there's no problem . <no-speech> I will talk to him but do not disconnect the phone . okay ? <no-speech> ahh so now why should I disconnect and you are he one who has called ? <no-speech> mm . I'm wondering -- you -- you might disconnect my friend and I am the one who has called you . <no-speech> I am the one who is very full with much credit . <no-speech> even the one for %incomplete <no-speech> do you want me to send five hundred to you ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm even very shocked that you're calling today what happened a flasher today has become a caller mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm sending you then -- I'm sending you five hundred worth of credit . <no-speech> I'm very rich today very rich . <no-speech> mmhm so today %incomplete you might get everything if you share it . <no-speech> <no-speech> okay . are you going to the system ? (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> I must go to the system in fact today we have -- we have an exam today . <no-speech> <no-speech> we're in fact starting exam today . and -- and the way you don't like going to the system will you really pass ? <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh . there's this -- revising or is what is that thing ? mm . it's not a must . mm mm . ahh the ones that will pass let them do so and the ones that will fail that's it . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm mm . <no-speech> ahh . it's weeks -- how many weeks is it ? <no-speech> <no-speech> it's just two weeks that I haven't gone to the system ? <no-speech> mmhm you know you have passed what have you lost much ? <no-speech> ahh . but I used to be sent %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . mm . those ones are usually sent through the laptop and we -- you -- you -- you confirm personally that you're doing them . <no-speech> and then what about the other matter of helping me send that cargo ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I told you about that . I will help you then and I can even help you then to send through the phone . <no-speech> is that fine . it's because I don't know but if I knew I'd have even finished with that task long time ago . <no-speech> that's the -- it has no problem . <no-speech> <no-speech> that's why I told you if it's on phone we can use the phone or we can then use ten and then I can tell my friend to help you . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it's just sending then -- then if it comes (()) if the message comes then he will tell you after like two days or about one day ? no . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I don't want those cyber people to know about my story are you getting me ? <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh . <no-speech> I have understood . mmhm mm . <no-speech> ahh . <no-speech> then will we use my phone ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it's okay even -- even mine can go into the internet . must it be yours or is it because it's new ? <no-speech> it's not because mine is brand new . <no-speech> mmhm ? <no-speech> mm . it's because going to the internet through mine is much faster than yours because the buttons are not even visible . <no-speech> ahh where this one is superb . they have to be searched for . <no-speech> and then now . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> really I don't have (()) .
T270 <no-speech> maybe some people specifically farmers of cashew nuts would like to know the behaviors of cashew nuts in the production of more and better produce how does it work ? the absolute first step in the production of cashew nut is to plant the produce of the season . <no-speech> if you take a look in this farm is that in the period of the past years the time the opportunity of cashew nut had not started to crowd I used to plant here -- I used to plant cow pea and green gram . I used to plant other produce for example cassava . <no-speech> and that is then the first period because if you have done so %incomplete meaning cashew nut benefits the time you are planting those produce but similarly and you also gain that your farm remains pure and your cashew nut grows in a clean state but similarly you get extra food . <no-speech> but when the cashew nut begins to come close to each other and the leaves move near each other like it is now in this farm you find that the spaces for planting the products of the season have reduced . and -- if they have become reduced it means you cannot plant the produce therefore ploughing and taking care of those produce becomes not there . the result is that the weeds sprout in large number . and on many parts that are farming the produce of cashew nut you find that the weed period you find that you cultivate between twice or three times in a season . and is very huge cost if you are using a hand hoe or casual workers to cultivate . now these weeds right now are a big problem . <no-speech> and it is a big problem because in the southern areas for example in Mtwara province and -- and Mtwara province even specifically Rindi region where cashew nut are planted largely the weed period is a big problem and it's a problem because the period of -- of using hands or using a hoe it forces you to cultivate at least twice or three times in a season before you start to pick cashew nuts . now if you can maybe you farm in the process like I did me . that you plough by tractor therefore by a big potion those weeds reduce and your farm becomes in a clear state . but more than there is that we have big problems of different types of weeds that germinate on the cashew nut farms . and this has led to the level which even the use of plants spraying chemicals in order to control weeds it has been seen also as a problem or a problem of -- of -- which has -- has -- it is in -- in half baked knowledge . and you say half baked knowledge because when you use the spraying chemicals for example a drug called glyphosate . the drug of glyphosate kill weeds . there is no -- there is no objection on that . but what type of weeds ? weeds of grass -- grass weeds that thrive for one season or two they die very easily . but the weeds we are seeing these ones -- of the bush %incomplete <no-speech> these bush weeds even when the drugs kill weeds it seems to be unable to kill these weeds . <no-speech> generally the activities of cashew nut faming is faced by different challenges being together with harvesting where the harvester is forced to squat or bend their waists for a long time so that she can pick sort out and peel off the skin of cashew nut . <no-speech> now you know cashew nut is picked . <no-speech> when it reaches the time of picking that is a big job harvesting of cashew nut . this is like plucking this one . <no-speech> you pluck you sit down you pluck until the waist starts to pain . it is the big job %incomplete that is the work of cashew nut did not explain these ones like that woman translated or explained . work of cashew nut is a procedure this big job is to bend and collect together these cashew nut then also when collecting together to take various ones then you can sit in a section here you work and that job causes a lot of pain . <no-speech> this back can pain you a lot because of sitting for a long time . therefore that is the way cashew nut work is . <no-speech> therefore of employment you can just tell the employer that this here I have got five plastics or I have gotten four plastic that way you go to deliver to who employed you . now if is in your room then you harvest you know that I have got one sack for today then you go to keep it at home and a day after tomorrow I don't know if you come back you go to harvest you go to return at your home it is then till you know that right now I have got five sacks six sacks seven sacks to take to the market to want the money needs now . you are paid eight hundred shillings .
T277 sugar hyp sweetener
T276 4 teachers fall victims of the love affairs. written by Veronica Mheta, Longido. published on: 25th October 2016. four teachers of Kitumbeine Secondary School in Longido district, Arusha province have been suspended from work to pave way for investigation after being suspected to indulge in love affairs their students. delivering a statement to the Arusha Provincial Commissioner, Mrisho Gambo who is in that province for a five-day tour to assess development and challenges, the District Commissioner of Longido, Daniel Chongolo said that investigations are currently underway to determine how those teachers got involved in love relations with their students. Chongolo said that once the investigations are complete and ascertained, disciplinary actions will be taken against them. he also said that there is a challenge of early pregnancy, that some of their parents and guardians have been marrying them off as a result of traditions. he said that the government is following closely parents with that behavior of marrying off their children at a small age since that problem is at 13 percent in pastoral communities. nevertheless, he said that early pregnancy have reduced from six in the year 2013 to four although there is still the challenge of girls being married off at an early age by their parents. "we are undertaking investigations to ascertain whether the teachers truly got involved in love affairs with their students or not and if it's proven about that, harsh disciplinary measures will be done," he said without mentioning the names of the concerned individuals. furthermore, he said that the district has a shortage of 128 classroom infrastructures, 281 teachers' quarters, 393 pit latrines and 1320 desks, where in this financial year 2016/17, the district has been required to construct 60 classrooms, seven teachers' quarters together with adding six primary schools so as to reduce the problem. after Gambo received that report, he took part in the roof construction of Longido Secondary School's dormitory that was burnt down. he requested the police to do regular patrols at the school so as to manage fire menace and improve security of the students, and students to also cooperate with the teachers so as to enhance security during evening classes. he insisted that the government is pursuing all those who participated in the act of burning the various schools in the region so as to arraign them to the state organs. he advised village leaders to ensure they participate in planning security in their areas in order to control various incidences that breach the peace including the issue of fire.
T275 desk hyp furniture
T274 Kilimanjaro deputy Mayor dies by Hecton Chuwa, Moshi deputy mayor for Moshi municipal, Kilimanjaro province who is also a Councilor in Kiboriloni division for the ticket of democracy and development party (Chadema), Vincent Rimoy died yesterday during the day. according to the reports that were confirmed by the mayor of that authority, honorable Jaffari Michael, said Rimoy died while being rushed to hospital after collapsing while in the farm in Mandaka in Moshi. "the body of the late has been preserved at KCMC referral hospital mortuary," he said honorable Michael is also the chairman of Chadema in Moshi district. speaking with Majira, one of the servants of the late who did not want his name mention in the newspaper, said Rimoy woke up in the morning and went to his farm after coming from a Dar es Salaam journey November 4 this year. and one of the friends to the late who did not want his name written in the newspaper, said the death of Rimoy reminds him of the pain that faced them 23 years ago. "Rimoy was once involved in a car accident on Easter in the year 1990 while with his family... in the accident, he lost his wife and all the five children, it honestly hurts," he said. besides being a politician, the late was involved in business, owning a hotel in Moshi called New Castle, a construction business together with owning Saint Patrick school. .
T65 increase syn become greater price syn monetary value
T64 lady refuses boyfriend to be shaved by a woman by Lewa Jefa a lady from this neighborhood caused a stir when she invaded a barber shop and chased out her lover who had gone to get a shave, claiming that the place was full of ladies who seduced men in the pretense of massaging their heads after being shaved. we are informed that in that place there is a section where customers are shaved and another where their heads are washed and massaged. according to our informant, all barbers in that room are male youth but those who wash and massage customers are beautiful ladies who only wear bras and shorts. to get shaved "it is very rare to find the place without customers because every time men flock there to get services and others to stare at the beautiful ladies as they work," said the informant. on the day of the incident, the lady arrived there noisily and found her boyfriend in the process of being shaved. "she started yelling at him and called him a lady in public, for falling into the beautiful ladies trap. the staff and the supervisors of the place were forced to take immediate action to avoid more drama in fear of being muddled by that lady and told her to stop spreading gossip about their business," said the informer.
T279 potatoes
T278 a dose of guava leaves will heal you of diarrhea probably you didn't know that guavas are one of the fruits with great benefits for your health particularly the pregnant because it has folic acid and vitamin B-9 that helps in building the sensory system for the child in the womb. guavas have vitamin C four times more than that found in oranges and therefore are the best fruit for people suffering from diabetes for it has fibers in plenty and a nourishment with protection against sugar. according to research that was once published by Journal of Human Hypertension, guavas can reduce the large amounts of blood flow in the body from the potassium elements and vitamin C that helps in maintaining blood pumping in the body. use of guavas will reduce for you the risk of getting diabetes and this results from guavas being rich in Fiber. guavas have good prevention for diabetes, it improves the ability to see because of vitamin A it has. also, guavas have minerals called folate that helps to nourish reproductive eggs and regulates blood pressure. a person who takes this fruit frequently improves his visual ability, prevents wearing out of skin and the vitamins within helps to detox the body. guavas have copper that is good in the working of thyroid glands, it also has manganese that helps the body to suck nutrients present in the food we eat. another benefit of guavas is to help relax the mind and body and it's advisable to eat guavas after performing a hard task, vitamin B3, vitamin B6 that are in this fruit improves the health of the mind. when guava leaves are used as tea after boiling helps to remove poison in the body, hence guarding the health of the heart. research shows that guava leaves have the ability to prevent staphylococcus aureus parasites that causes diarrhea. a cup of guava leaf juice that has been boiled in the morning and evening is a cure for these ailments.
T61 billions lost in kind in NBC Jul 25, 2012 the situation is not stable at the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) after the bank's general director, Lawrence Mafuru, was suspended, good citizen has identified. the bank's internal information, which the Government of Tanzania owns about 30 percent of the stock, explains that there is pressure on the government, through the Bank of Tanzania and the treasury, to take immediate measures to protect Tanzania's interest in the bank. but while putting pressure on an urgent action, an investigation by Good Citizen revealed that already dollar instruments, in partnership with BoT, has begun to keep an eye on NBC. however, the study is being conducted in the country's largest banking network in allegedly a state of emergency, there are controversial efforts that involve dirty techniques to ultimately hide the facts for the purposes of protecting chief criminals against law enforcement. according to a study of this newspaper involving various NBC officials, at the moment foreign investors in the bank have been doing all sorts of sabotage for a long time and on the other hand endeavoring to silence the patriarchs who seem to be their obstacles in achieving their dirty approach. statements that this newspaper has suggested that one of the issues being monitored by dollar instruments is currently the purchase of a banking network that specializes in keeping customer records. professionally the network is known as Flexcube Database. the network purchased by NBC officials who are foreign nationals working in the joint venture bank between Tanzania and South Africa, has been estimated to cost 30 million US dollars. but the issue of controversy leading to need for further investigation is another statement that the same network has been purchased by the NMB bank at a cost of six million US dollars. apart from the investigation that is concerned with the price being high in the purchase of that industrial plant, the investigation also aims at looking at the quality of that industrial plant which has been costing the NBC a lot of money due to bringing experts outside the country to do repairs at a high cost. "when a slight change is made to Flexcube it costs 60,000 US dollars per change (100 million shillings) off the cost of keeping the professionals in the country in housing and other costs," explains one banking expert who is currently engaging in professional consultancy activities. Good Citizen contacted the Head of Marketing NBC, Mwinda Mfugale about the suspicions directed to the bank. however, Mwinda did not have any answers to every question as stated in this article and instead replied to our author saying, "the suspicions mentioned are general, they have not been directed to anyone and I do not have information on the analysis of such suspicions, so I cannot talk about those issues beyond the information we provided to the media about the suspension of the director for investigation." but with these answers from Mwinda, more information from NBC explains that the bank has been deliberately targeted by some foreigners in the banking system to the extent of expelling them and its senior customers, including one of the largest industrial producer in the country. they deliberately killing (NBC), expelling big customers. they are involved in bad loans, which are causing a major shake to threaten even BoT," explains one officer in one of the bank's branches in the center of Dar es Salaam. due to the shake, BoT has begun to closely monitor movements of the major bank in the country, Good Citizen has said that the bank's shareholders may have to raise more capital, which could raise questions about why banks do not increase their profits different from situation is in many other banks in the country. "Tanzanians we have been like a farmer's field, a fair Tanzanian citizen as a fraudulent persecutor who punishes others for doing wrong. they have now reached a point of wanting to devour her even in her community," says one senior officer from the Ministry of Finance. in addition to the shopping area, NBC has also been losing billions of money in debt collection. in the debt collection area, billions are lost using a method of cancellation of some debts in a complex environment. by eliminating theft of billions in the debt collection process and shopping area, another type of robbery takes place in the submission of mortgage auction funds. the investigation should not end on flex purchases only, it should go far beyond other devices such as doors, cameras and other devices that are really a bit of controversy as well as transportation of money and security issues, says one officer in the NBC, in Dar es Salaam city. the worst fears have now spread into the NBC because some workers begin to feel the presence of a plot to demand all the bank's shares taken by foreigners. the trap that causes that fear to patriotic workers is mentioned is to build arguments for forcing the Government of Tanzania to put a capital increment in that bank and, if it fails, then the stocks of the government be sold and in selling the buyers will have been preplanned and finally the bank being owned 100 percent by foreigners. in the current NBC, ABSA from South Africa owns 55 percent of the shares and the Tanzanian Government with 30 percent, and 15 percent of the shares are owned by the International Finance Corporation (IFC-International Monetary Fund). however, ABSA has already been negotiated and purchased by the Barclays International Bank and other new reports indicating that one of the three NBC owners, IFC, is ready to sell its shares. due to IFC's willingness to sell its shares, some NBC staff advise it that it would be well for the Government of Tanzania to take the shares instead of selling them. but while all of this continued on the NBC, reports arriving at our newspaper Good Citizen, said that the Bank's Board of Directors is expected to meet today Wednesday to discuss their banking situation, including the fate of Mafuru and other employees. Mafuru was suspended by the NBC board on charges of letting an independent investigation, a step which he said he is self-confident, clean and expects to continue his work after the investigation. until December 2010, NBC had assets worth 1.47 trillion shillings in shareholders' deposits amounting to 153.1 billion shillings, that is according to the bank's website. NBC was established in the country in 1967 when the Government of Tanzania, under Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, when conducting the financing of financial institutions, including banks. in 1997, NBC was divided into three different institutions. the first institution was called NBC Holding Corporation (NBC-Agency Corporation responsible for managing NBC's mother property), the second institution called the National Microfinance Bank (NMB) and the third institution called NBC (1997) Limited. after the division, in 2000, the South African Banking Corporation (ABSA Group Limited) purchased a lot of NBC (1997) Limited stocks which were being sold, a purchase that contributed to severe opposition in the country being described as a sale at cast prices. the sale was severely opposed by Mwalimu Julius Nyerere who, in general, was not pleased with the privatization process and especially for public-owned companies which were running through profit. in the ABSA Group's acquisition of 55 percent, the Tanzanian government 'allocated itself' 30 percent of IFC shares, a subsidiary of the World Bank, bought 15 percent of the stock. in this 'sale', the NBC was called National Bank of Commerce (Tanzania) Limited.
T60 proper diet is a basis of family development, nation proper diet is an important matter for the workforce of any nation. the government has a bigger opportunity to make sure it increases the enforcement of proper diet so as to annihilate all kinds of malnutrition in the country. in order to win this war, you need cooperation of all stakeholders who will implement their responsibility. the partnership for nutrition (Panita), primary and private schools, religious institutions and public agencies together with local and international companies are important stakeholders in implementing this. the government is supposed to establish policies and programs that will enhance availability of proper and affordable food from household or family level. this is together with encouraging production of food crops to have enough food reserves in national silos as well as a good system for preserving, distributing and processing the food. also, the government should set up an environment to increase employment and income to the citizens, to develop infrastructure and electricity, to control the increase in food prices and to add supplements for example vitamins and minerals in foods. to add on that, the government should create a friendly environment for small scale farmers to access loans so that they can contribute to production. people who are in risky groups such as street children, the old and the poor to get services of free food. proper diet is a cure. the government should invest enough in the education of proper diet from family level. citizens should have the capacity of how to serve the sick especially preparation of their food. besides that, the government should encourage citizens to protect themselves against illnesses in several ways including encouraging breastfeeding for at least six months as well as educating mothers about proper means of stopping the child from breastfeeding. the government, through its institutions and ministries, oversees the the safety and quality of industrial, industrial and market industries. it should keep encouraging and making sure availability of enough vaccinations for all children, drinking of clean and safe water and considering body hygiene and the cleanliness of the environment. despite building and employing experts, parents or guardians should be advised to take children to dispensaries or health centers immediately they fall sick. it is supposed also to improve health services including availability of health information and education. the government should set up an equal environment and equal opportunities for all children to be registered and complete schooling at least primary education. more effort should be directed to girls most of whom are cut short from schooling as a result of various reasons including pregnancy and underage marriages. divisional schools should be improved so that they become real saviors for children from poor families. the efforts of president John Magufuli's government of providing free education are to be supported by all Tanzanian citizens and more energy should be directed to communities that do not respond to educational calls. moreover, education program for the elderly should be insisted so as to involve those who missed while young. health services should be improved and the structure for every citizen to afford them should be planned. maternity services should be improved in order to avoid problems that can arise during the time of delivery.
T63 it is the children and the brother of the leaders of CCM only who remained to fight for life and death I have been following the trends of the political leaders of CCM with their children together with their other people who are genetically close and to witness that when you leave the leaders on their own of CCM, the second group does anything possible to try and rescue that party is for the children of those leaders. a lot of children of the leaders of CCM, mainly on WhatsApp groups and Social media are fighting life and death to save their parents' sustenance. their main game that they are using is to show the public that the opposition is not worthy by, "Lowassa is corrupt person" a lot of them have no understanding, they have very little capability of reasoning which is associated with being confused and the arguments they create during the confrontations are very surprising. you will not believe the answers, the competition and their arguments when you meet with them and try to explain that where we have reached there is need for change! their argument has a lot of anger and symbolizes that they are entitled to the destiny of Tanzania.
T62 'the money that was given to ghost workers to be returned to the government' every leader in Mwanza province is supposed to take up his responsibility Ngollo John, Mwananchi mwananchipapers@mwananchi.co.tz Mwanza. after 1,057 ghost workers in Mwanza province caused a lose of 2.1 billion shillings, the government has put up strategies to ensure the money is returned by the end of July this year. in attaining that, the Mwanza provincial boss John Mongella will today participate in a meeting of the committee that will also be attended by all district heads, administrative secretaries, executive directors of the councils and head of ministries with an intention of giving directions to everyone. "everyone should accomplish and fulfill responsibilities in their region to ensure government funds that were paid contrary to the procedures are refunded to account for development projects for the citizens," said Mongella the other day. that provincial commissioner said thorough criminal investigations is going on to determine officers and supervisors who were involved so that legal actions are taken against them. speaking in the meeting between some of the leaders and various stakeholders, he said the initial step that was taken is to remove from the payroll workers who are not supposed to continue being paid a salary by the government. "the aim is to take action against those who brought us to this matter intentionally, they decided to benefit themselves with public funds contrary to the procedures," he said.
T50 Majaliwa discharges 4 forest officials written by Ikunda Erick, Rufiji published: 27 September 2016 Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has suspended four forest officials as well as suspending all activities of the harvest of forest produce in Rufji district at the coast province in order to give way for investigations and putting up firm plans for managing the sector. these actions were announced yesterday in Rufiji town when the Prime Minister spoke to servants of Rufiji District before later speaking to citizens in his tour of the Coastal Province to inspect development activities and to issue directives to servants in the public sector. those suspended from work were Head of the Land Department, Natural Resources and Environment, Doctor Paul Ligonja, District Forest Officer, Gaudence Tarimo, Forest Officer, Yonas Nyambua and the Tanzania District Forest Agent (TFS), Suleiman Bulenga. "effective today, I am suspending these servants and the Ikwiriri gate to be removed immediately, the bush is a thieves haven. "also all forest harvesting work should stop, there is no harvesting until new procedures and looking at where to harvest, where not to harvest because the forest is depleted and the money going into peoples' pockets, the government does not benefit," said Majaliwa. in addition, he instructed the District Commissioner, Juma Njwayo to collect all the logs in the forest and to auction them. he directed the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism to go to Rufiji District to investigate logging licenses that were provided in order to determine those that were legitimate. "Rufiji has a bad reputation, it leads in the harvesting of forests without following procedure yet there are forest officials, we cannot continue in this way, they should stop work, the ministry will come to inspect and the guileless ones will return, the corrupt the sign is clear you have to go," said the Prime Minister. Majaliwa is the Member of Parliament for Ruangwa Province and was also once the Rufiji District Commissioner. he said that the logging had been suspended even for harvesters with legitimate licenses until when investigations were completed and good systems set in place for harvesting for the benefit of the nation. he said there were administrators who were colluding on forest products by stamping with Kilwa stamps for logs that had been harvested in Rufuji and later pocketing the money. concerning the Ikwiriri gate, the Prime Minister instructed the Director of that District Council, Rashid Salum to follow-up on orders he issued to the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Professor Jumanne Maghembe when he met with the staff of that ministry. he said in his orders, he insisted that there was no need for the government to continue having workers without integrity and who are unfaithful to their nation, who have been given responsibilities and they have been unable to implement them by turning their areas of work into their personal benefit. he added that there was no need of having many barriers of the inspection of forest products, many that have no income and instead he directed that they are reduced so that those few should work with expertness. earlier, while speaking to citizens at a rally, the prime minster promised to solve various issues affecting the Rufiji citizens which include drug shortage, staff, purchase of a new ferry and promising to provide banking services. in that meeting, a section of the citizens carried posters with messages of various concerns that the Prime Minister was forced to call upon administrators of the various sectors to answer to those concerns. earlier, Member of Parliament for Rufiji, Mohammed Mchengerwa, told the Prime Minister that the main concern in the district is the poor discipline of public servants and said many had no integrity. Mchengerwa said many projects had been squandered, including the Rufiji river basin development authority (RUBADA) and that those who did so are some trusted administrators and given responsibility and asked the prime minister to hold them accountable. in other developments, the Prime Minister has asked the Rufiji Council's management to ensure that they survey the land and set up plans for better land use in order to ensure that all citizens with sites are issued with title deeds of their sites to be able to use them in requesting loans from financial institutions.
T378 'meeting Simba still here' written by Grace Mkojera published: 24 November 2016 the red Simba have said they will keep on with their program of having annual general meeting on 11 December this year as they announced targeting to make corrections on the constitution. Simba's spokesman, Haji Manara said yesterday that the meeting follows the procedures of the club's constitution and that it does not concern any leader of the national sports debate (BMT) but members and their club. he said the government through the ministry of communication, culture, art and sports, Nape Nnauye said they don't have any problem on the change of the club formation insisting that the procedure be followed and the club constitution be adhered to. "if it is following the procedure we have done so, but we are disappointed by the secretary general (BMT) Mohamed Kiganja's opinion of showing dissatisfaction with the ongoing process of bringing change in the operation of our club," he said. he said that the Simba leaders are ready to follow the law and legal procedures required by the government in order to attain their objective of bringing change that is needed right now in their club. also, he said in any meeting not everyone will agree with what is expected to be done, but it is important to check what is accepted by the majority than the minority objecting. he said that what is accepted by the majority is what is right therefore it is not important to predict that there are those who will refuse because it is normal in any development. however, Kiganga said recently, "we cannot stop Simba from meeting if they have decided to meet for their peace to discuss and they will bring us whatever they will discuss. he added that, "we as the government we keep saying that meetings are not problems to us, but the problem is the decisions that may divide their club or to divide the citizens, that is where we don't want." the process of Simba and Yanga going to changes started two months ago where later on the government through BMT announced to stop and make changes on their club constitutions before doing any other step.
T379 let's stop people's politics and focus on issues. April 26th, 2015. one of the things that at times make one lose hope when you follow up on our country's politics, is that we follow people too much. the biggest fanaticism of following people trouble us because its results are often not good. the politics of following people are politics that should not continue to be entertained because all the time its results are bad. the politics of following people follow the fanaticism of a person in another person. many if not all times, people get attracted to a certain politician or because it is their friend or it is a person who makes them so happy to a point that they are blind to the troubles or weaknesses of that person and to the extent of being ready to accept being led by them, as long as he is their colleague. these politics do not really care about the issues a person stands for. one danger that could be massive especially towards the general election is that there are people among us who do not really care what politicians stand for or even investigating what they say they stand for. these ones will follow a person or they will stand with a person because not standing with them could be problematic. they don't care about the history of the person and even if they say they care, they don't care about the whole history but the one they like. its results are that in this election, we might put to authority people who a few weeks later will be the ridicule of the voters. we've already seen in the last parliament for example, some parliamentarians where a person if forced to ask how they were able to be elected in their counties. there are some that you could say are like sarcasm to the voters' intelligence, that how drunk were the voters to have elected those they elected. at times, the answer is very easy, they elected them because they liked them. they didn't care if they were good leaders or not. what they cared about was that not electing them would have been viewed as betraying them. its results are that politicians and especially those who want to contest for leadership positions know our weakness, and therefore do not care to talk about policies or issues more and instead they will come with arguments that talk about people. for example, people are opposing CCM not because they know what CCM stands for but they are opposing CCM because they just do not like the CCM members. and some might dislike some of the CCM members and therefore hate all CCM members. this is true even on another side. there are people who dislike Chadema not because of the issues it stands for but they dislike it because they do not like the people inside that party. and you might see this even with CUF, ACT Patriots or other political parties. its results are that our politics are very fanatical on people. if a politician leaves or makes a certain decision, we do not really care if it is the right decision or not but because it is a person we like so much, we find ourselves forced to support him because not doing so amounts to not being our colleague. its danger is that we start making up a "peoples' following" instead of the following of issues. these kind of politics are very dangerous. they are dangerous because if that person changes their stand then we are also forced to change our stand or to agree with his stand because if we go against him, it is easy to be seen as not supporting the person. these kinds of politics all the time have very bad results. they have bad results because if we do not stand for the principles or issues which show how we stand for principles and therefore decide to follow people, then we can find ourselves being tossed around like cone. take for example a politician stands and says something which we agree with him then later on changes about the same thing. should we also change? some are forced to change because they agree with those changes or others change because if they do not change, they will find themselves colliding with the earlier agreement. this is very important to think of especially when it comes to the issue of presidential candidates. for what particular reasons are we supporting certain contestants? do we know what they stand for? what do they stand for? we support others because they are opposing a certain contestant, is this a reason enough to support them? or should we support those we agree with but in doing so we oppose others just because they are supporting others? can we be able to support people on issues without being hateful (and this is a major result of the politics of following people) of those we are not supporting? I say it is a major result because, instead of taking what we are doing as politics, we have started agreeing with one of the totally dangerous norms, brewing hate. if we don't agree or if I don't support you then it means I hate you. is it a must to be like that? it is bad luck that we have not yet found a good cure for this crisis.
T269 the cell phone is a special device to boost productivity the coming of technology especially cell phones has become the a great attraction in different fields including the field of agriculture. M-Farm - is a service that farmers can use to know the prices of products in the market. this help them to decide if they would like to sell their produce or keep those produce to sell later. this service also assist farmers to sell their produce, buying seeds, fertilizers and other agricultural inputs. this service is made possible by use of cell phones or M-Farm website. iCow is a phone service that assists the farmers to determine the days to conception or pregnancy days for cows. it was introduced with the aim of increasing the population of cattle. this service uses a short message code to send the days of rearing cows and to register those cows. this service informs the farmers the day they expect their cows to deliver or the right day of conception of those animals. a farmer is able to know the veterinary doctor that is near or those animal rearing experts using that service. Kilimo Salama is a phone service or of internet website. this service is offered by Syngenta foundation and provides produce insurance to protect the farmers from loses when the plants are destroyed by drought or floods. suppose the weather of the farmer as was recorded by the weather stations of the company shows the possibility of plants' destruction, the farmers are sent to money using the phone service to cover the cost of the seeds used, fertilizer and other farm inputs. M-Pesa is the M-Pesa service that have assisted thousands of farmers. this service helps the farmers to send and receive money from the sale of their produce or money to buy seeds. this service makes it easy for the farmers to save their money or receive loans or payment. they can also use Mshwari service to borrow and save their earnings. by Bernardine Mutanu
T372 bring change
T373 educate the community mandates of the Millennium Development Goals university students appointed written by Joachim Nyambo, Mbeya. published 02 December 2016 university students have been appointed as good ambassadors by providing community education on the sustainable millennium goals, to enable them to recognize and participate in their work. the statement was issued by UN Secretary-General and Director of the United Nations Development Agency (UNDP) Tanzania, Alvaro Rodriguez, at the 17th Millennium Development Goals workshop for students of the Theofilo Kisanji University (TEKU) of Mbeya. Rodriguez said university students have a great opportunity to spread the education of the Millennium Objectives if they decide to enable the community to understand them and thus it will be easier for stakeholders to achieve the goals and ultimately the thirst for the world to achieve that goal is achieved. one of the most stressed on goals to reach the community include climate change, which he said the community should be integrated into environmental management to avoid the adverse day-to-day effects due to the damage being done. he said it is important that the community recognizes the importance of maintaining the environment since doing so will help to slow down climate change which will have a profound effect on current and future generations. climate change has not impact on the current and future generation. the community must recognize the importance of maintaining the environment and recognizing this need it is necessary for intelligent people to make known the plans for the present world. students can do this because you are from the community, said Rodriguez.
T370 debt debate
T371 a ladies magazine: it is not good to be happy when others get into challenges. it is written by Theopista Nsanzugwanko. published: 25 September 2016. challenges in the life of human beings is a normal thing may it be on our own causes or caused by another person especially in the pursuit of getting a life. sometimes you can find yourself in the struggle of life and you get advisers which from one reason or the other you will find yourself in the hands of the law or struggling with huge debts which from one way or the other can make someone to lose hope. but during the struggle of life for sure you are not supposed to lose lose, to get development and to grow personal economically, the family that surrounds you and also the whole economy. even though, there is a character that causes men to be courageous and to say women do not love each other, mainly from their own actions. for example, you find a particular women who has risen in development and even to own a company or a big business, now when she gets a challenge her fellow women will start to make fun and be happy. truly, character like this is not good in the least, what is required is to look in which way a woman like that who is brave was able to lift up herself economically and when she gets a problem it is good to follow up and understand deeply what afflicted her, but not to be happy or to laugh at her because of the problem she is going through. I am saying that because of the truth that there are reasons that can bring down a woman in her efforts because of getting bad counsel and with her assistants or any other thing therefore it is good women to cry with each other when a problem happens and to laugh with them when they succeed. it reach a time when a women gets into problems you suffer together, sitting and discussing how to help each other so as prevent those problems and if you will not be successful and she will be taken to the courts therefore use her weaknesses to improve the services of others but not to change the discussion. it is not pleasing at all the woman who was owning a big business, then got problems, then her fellow women are the ones on the front line to laugh. even if she falls it is good to look at how many have developed from her company or business. remember this woman can have a family, brothers and relatives she helps, when a problem arises those who depend on her become main victims, therefore we should not laugh or celebrate, look at yourself if, the same happens to you how would things be? when a fellow woman gets a problem pray that she overcomes it, because when you fight you reduce the number of successful groups. I conclude by saying sure women can.
T376 the participation of Tanzania in the forum of ICT in the world Rashid Mkwinda by Innocent Mungy - Bangkok Thailand Tanzania is participating in the forum of ICT of the world that is prepared by the United Nations that manages the communication in the world (ITU-International Telecommunications Union) that is taking place in Bangkok, Thailand. that conference which the main aim of stimulating change in the world of ICT, it involves countries who are members of ITU and also those who are not members, the communication companies in the world, institutions and managers of the communication sectors together with the government, they are participating in this forum during the period when great changes in communication sector in the world is ongoing. these changes have led to the challenges of accepting and confronting its challenges as a result of the benefits of the changes being important to the World News Society. while speaking, in Bangkok city, the Minister of Communication, Science and Technology, Professor Makame Mbarawa said that Tanzania is ready and it has already received the changes and implemented the strategies and to make sure that Tanzania is making changes without problems. either the Honorable Mbarawa has said Tanzania recognizes the importance of the changes in the information and communication technology (ICT) especially in this period of the digital system because it is the only way to speed up the development of Tanzanians successfully. oh his side the Managing Director of Communication Authority in Tanzania, Professor John Nkoma said Tanzania is on the forefront to make sure that it stimulate the change of technology of information and communication so that the citizens can benefit with services of communication. "we have a good system of the management of the licenses of technology interaction, law and good principles which has a capability to bring changes in ICT to benefit Tanzanians". already Tanzania has entered into the systems of digital broadcasting and we continue to promote good environment so that we have many services so as to ease the life of Tanzanians. said Professor Nkoma. several institutes from Tanzania are participating in this symposium from Tanzania this together with the ministry of health, the commission of science and technology, DTBI of inventors and discoverers, NICTBB that manages Mkongo of Taifa, Maxcom. this forum will be held for four days from 19 - 22 November 2013. Tanzania is participating with the motto of the country, "Tanzania: Africa Strategic ICT Hub". together with the forum, there is also displays of ICT which has an aim of showing the way countries are stimulating development to their citizen through ICT. the display tent of Tanzania has attracted a lot of people, they are trying to learn how Tanzania has been able to stimulate changes in ICT and how the citizens are benefiting with different services that are being provided in the whole country. may be some of the Institutions that are participating are looking at the possibilities of stimulating more provision of their services by being with participants in their activities. today morning, the delegates of Tanzania participated in a special meeting of investors in communication sector that was convened by the Deputy Secretary General of ITU, Mister Houlin Zhao.
T183 hackers turn Fid Q's Instagram account into Wema Sepetu's! if you are looking for Fid Q's Instagram account since yesterday without success then be aware that the hackers have hacked it, deleted all his images and converted it into Wema Sepetu's. the account has more than 160,000 followers. "this account was hacked yesterday last night except I discovered today," Fid told Clouds FM. I discovered after signing into the account and it was not working. I had written an activist, so I see they have decided to change the name and write the name of Wema Sepetu," he said.
T374 autism affects Tanzania. written by our reporter. published: on 17th October 2016. Tanzania still faces a major challenge to coping with autism that most people do not treat from not knowing its symptoms, it has been known. this was stated by the Head of the National Association for People with Autism in Tanzania (NAPA-T), Doctor Stella Rwezaula at a press conference. "the symptoms of autism have not yet been well known to parents and teachers in the country that they are unable to treat this disease or to get professional help because it is a disease that has a lot of effect on how a person communicates and most often has the tendency to do things repeatedly and unintentionally," he said. he said for this year, the Lotus Health Center (LHC) which is a non-governmental organization and is working to help children with special needs funded NAPA-T to organize aiming at providing education on autism and this workshop will bring about 100 participants from the private sector and governmental organizations. he said one of the NAPA-T tasks in collaboration with the LHC is to provide adequate education and training on this disease including local government and the central government. London Health Center (LHC) executive director, Dialla Kassam said they are proud to work with the National Association for People with Autism in Tanzania (NAPA-T) and thanked the United Kingdom sponsor, Kevin Baskerville who is a professional doctor for autism for his support as he has regularly come to Tanzania to offer training and education on autism. "through a workshop organized by the LHC last year, the International School of Tanganyika (IST) collaborated with the Msimbazi school of children with special needs and children of Msimbazi Mseto are allowed to go swimming in IST once a week," he said and added that the LHC is making every effort to integrate schools with special needs and government schools. he said LHC has also been providing support to schools for autism people in Mbuyuni through experts volunteers from all corners of the world and managed by the LHC which also provides educational resources for the school. he said LHC also works closely with the Muhimbili National Hospital, especially in the psychiatric department to seek donors to establish the first center of people with special needs in the country. the center will have enough specialists who will handle various psychological problems including autism. some of the symptoms of autism are failure of a child to look at a person in the eyes, not responding when called, failure to play with children of his age, failure to communicate his fellows, refusal to be carried and embraced, to long to be alone all the time and failure to show or understand different emotions. another symptom is a tendency to change, to be aggressive, to dislike change, to slow down in talking, to repeat some things, such as nodding the head, handshaking, tiptoeing and moving in circles.
T375 the member of parliament demands Duale to stop interfering with the region. by Kipkorir Rono the member of parliament for Kuresoi South, Mister Zakayo Cheruiyot has asked the Majority Leader in Parliament Adan Duale to stop involving himself with the politics of that region and instead focus on national issues. speaking in his constituency, Mister Cheruiyot expressed his anger on Mister Duale's speech when he visited the neighborhood constituency of Kuresoi North. Mister Duale was quoted saying that he and his group led by deputy president William Ruto would continue to bring development in Kuresoi North constituency represented by Moses Eneo Cheboi (KANU). in the statement, Mister Duale appeared to separate supporters of Bomet's governor Mister Isaac Rutto and the member of parliament for Kuresoi South as one of them saying they were friends of Raila Odinga and would want to undermine the Jubilee government. "it's a great shame for leaders to come under the pretext of promoting development in the rural areas while aiming to harass and ridicule others." said Mister Cheruiyot Mister Cheruiyot ignored the statement saying already development was seen in his area and did not require Mister Duale and his group to come to him to bring about development.
T152 China prepares cultural exhibitions written by Hellen Mlacky published: 09 November 2016 Chinese cultural institution has prepared cultural exhibitions for two weeks in Dar es Salaam to acknowledge great artists William Shakespeare and Tang Xianzu. speaking with the media in Dar es Salaam yesterday, cultural advisor of the Chinese cultural station, Gao Wei said the exhibition will be done on the nations memorial from November 12 to November 24. he said that the celebration is the 400th since the death of legend writer Shakespeare and the renown playwright of theater plays in China, Tan Xianzu. he said that the exhibition which targets to show the contribution of their writing will take place in 26 Chinese cultural centers in different countries until December this year where they also target to explain the Chinese tradition. "this exhibition targets to showcase the life and works of those playwrights whose lessons still have excitement in the current society," he said. he said the exhibition will enable visitors who will attend to see the relation between Eastern and western cultural shows. he said since the birth of Tang in 1550, he was able to write 2000 poems and essays of which most of them he wrote after he left his home town in 1598.
T153 gun
T150 Nape is happy about the artificial turf Nyamagana written by Alexander Sanga, Mwanza published: 14 November 2016 Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye has praised the efforts made towards the fixation of the artificial turf at the old stadium of Nyamagana, here in the province. speaking during the assessment of the stadium, Nape requested the contractors to do their best in the construction of the stadium, to ensure it becomes the best in East Africa. Nape said the government will continue to support the construction of the stadium while requesting various investors such as the banks and pension funds to assist in the laying of platforms and seats in the stadium. "I congratulate Kagera and Mwanza councils for constructing Kaitaba and Nyamagana stadiums and I'm requesting other municipalities and councils to follow that example by constructing other stadiums," says Nape. Minister Nape requested the international teams to come and play at the stadium because they have camps in this province for them to use. Assistant Mayor of Mwanza, Bhiku Kotecha said he really applauds the government for its efforts of constructing the stadium and promised to follow the instructions given to him by Minister Nape to ensure they finish that stadium. Kotecha requested the minister to grace the launch day of the stadium once completed.
T151 controversy emerges when it comes to expertise about gold September 19, 2012 the minister of mining and energy Professor Sospeter Muhongo said that he will make sure the China National Gold Corporation (CNGGC) company which is in a hurry to buy more stock of 30 percent of Africa Barrick Gold (ABG) company that they start mining until ABG will pay all debts it owes the government of Tanzania and good citizens are informed. that government position was released by Professor Muhongo confirming that ABG was having discussion and was ready to accept to sale their energy to CNGGC. Professor Muhongo said they have started investigating that report that the Chinese company will not start mining in this country until ABG company clears all debt arising from mining in this country. we will make sure all payment is made or else any company which buys energy from ABG will clear all debt before starting mining. "we will continue following keenly and very closely because they are very clever and we need to be very careful," Professor Muhongo said. if they will not clear the debt and they cheat the Chinese then the mining process will be difficult for them and will inform the ambassador of China to Tanzania about that company if buy energy from ABG company and should be prepared to clear all expenses that ABG failed to pay. that sentiment by Professor Muhogo follows the position of his ministry of what action is taking against mining, natural gas and oil company who were escaping to pay rent for so long and some have resorted to sale their company to foreigners like what ABG wants to do. those comments are brought up by the ABG reports through email such that, it has been in the conversation of selling some of his shares to that China Company. the report that there is discussions approval also and ABG office in Dar es Salaam on his letter through his spokesman, Nector Foya, it proves that company it is on previous steps of discussion with that China Company. "during that time, there is no prove of that discussion can reach to agreement that come out, it is still early that discussion can been finished if CNGGC will take more than 30 percent of ABG, compare with shares market of London (London Stock Exchange) ABG it proves that it has 4 billion pounds of shares. 1 in the shares market." during the time ABG were giving that explanation, the report of the plan for educating openness through savings of minerals, gas and oil (TEITI) which is under the chairperson Judge Mark Bomani, it has put it open such that there is possibility ABG has a loan. one officer of TEITI has said: "in the second report of TEITI for July 2009 up to June 2010, the total government income were 419 billion from quarry mines, gas and oil companies, in that division, paying revenue to any company is not good, they pay only seven percent, their claims is that they don't get profit." that officer said those figures are according to second report, "while waiting to arrange the forth report6 of financial year 2012/2013 we are not sure if that company you talking about of ABG has paid revenue of income for the financial year 2011/2012." ABG has several mines in the country, at some areas of Tulawaka, Biharamulo Kagera province, and Bulyanhulu, Kahama, Shinyanga and North Mara, Tarime Mara province.
T156 <no-speech> two suspects who were arrested and handed over to police by civilians are being held up to now following two explosions in Gikomba market in Nairobi which killed twelve people and injured seventy others on Friday . those I have witnessed with my own eyes are ten people . and people with injuries cannot even be counted . it's quite a lot of people . ten people have died . yes ten people have died while seeing with these eyes . and those who have been arrested are two people . they should not tell us anyone has been caught and released . we were holding two Somali men . police have started shooting up bullets upon arriving here . <no-speech> analysts are saying this is a sign of increase in attacks being done by Somali Al-Shabaab militants against the government of Kenya and raising fears among the international community where the United Kingdom took its six hundred citizens on Friday the majority from Mombasa city . as explosions occurred at fourteen hours in the afternoon President Uhuru Kenyatta was offering services in a different activity and immediately condemned it calling on Kenyan partners to unite . this is our battle together and we must work together -- this is our fight together and we must work together in order to defeat it . <no-speech> and to remain and report -- tourists who were visiting Kenya began to leave in response to the warning given by their governments and especially tourism companies from the United Kingdom send two planes to pick them up . some tourism companies have canceled their trips to Mombasa until November . (()) Kenyans are knowledgeable and intelligent people . but I am disappointed that we have been forced to cut down days of our vacation because of other people . we feel the pain that is getting people whom we are leaving behind in hotel with staff . we are very disappointed . <no-speech> Confederation of Tourism of Kenya is estimating effect occasioned by postponement of tourist trips will make Kenya lose around five billion Kenya shillings and it is blaming the government for not taking adequate measures to deal with terrorism . dozen of people thought to have been killed as a result of gun and grenade attacks in this month alone here in Kenya is generally assumed that it is the work of the same group that caused the deaths of sixty-seven people in the famous Nairobi mall of Westgate in the month of September . amid fears of increased violence number of visitors coming to Kenya have decreased by sixteen percent last year . now France the United Kingdom United Stages and Australia are telling their citizens not to visit that East African country but Kenyan government says the warning is not a friendly act and that the tourists are safe . but the security crackdown to combat terrorism held in Kenya in turn have sparked outrage among residents mainly Kenyans of Somali origin . Somali activists have launched a campaign in the Twitter page against those crackdowns by the statement saying I am not a terrorist . <no-speech> hundreds of undocumented immigrants were flown back to their homes hundreds of others have been arrested and placed in the football field for inspection . inspector of security issues Dennis Mtumbwi says the enemy is within . I do not think there is anybody fighting us -- I do not think there is anyone fighting us from outside of any boundary . whoever is fighting us is just among us and certainly we must clean the house . <no-speech> but the campaign leader Hamza Egal says Somali community is being discriminated . since the crack down started it seems that there is only one side of the story . immediately after the crackdown started it seemed that there was only one side of the story being described . each one was regarded as a security risk or a terrorist . and surely this is not the truth of the matter . as part of campaign to search for terrorists Somali refugees have been ordered to migrate from the cities and move towards camps in northeastern Kenya . a group that defends human rights Human Rights Watch have asked for the review of the security program while activists are asking the government to work with Somalis in dealing with the issue of security and not to be against them . it is Abdi Shakur Abud Voice of America Washington . <no-speech>
T157 Friday, November 25, 2016 Doctor Kigwangalla awarded certificates to the graduates of the Community Development sector in Tengeru with Anthony Ishengoma the government is preparing to employ 5,554 experts of community development for the period of five years so that they an provide service to the community development starting from the high level of the government to the rural they way it is in the administration first in the country. while giving a speech during the sixth graduation of the Institution of the Community Development, Tenguru outside the city of Arusha, the Deputy of the Minister of the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, the elderly and children, Hamis Kigwangalla has said the government of the first phase had a big population of women and men of community development in every ward. he added that for now the experts in the community development sector have started to reduce extremely and he wanted that institution to add more students to work on the purpose of the government of having experts in every district and ward. however, he wanted the Institution of Community Development, Tengeru to continue providing a profession that has quality standards and should be considered during the process of providing education starting with qualified students who deserve and the criteria that will build the community of readers who are productive in our nation. he said the country will change very much and there will be development if the professionals of this country will love their country the way everybody loves their mother and send themselves in the performance of the job it will go together with the wisdom of here it is work. and the head of the Institution of the Community Development, Tengeru, Anatory Bunduki, while he gave a speech to those graduates he said together with the strategies that are there to improve that Institution, for now it has started a national center of research and conservation of posts of women in the country, the center has began by collaboration with UNESCO and UNFPA together with the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children. the Head of the Institution continued to say that the aim of starting that center is to do research on the issues of women, gender, girl child so as to lift the economy, politics, tradition and family and use these the research to discuss in developing the policy and to give decisions that includes the issues of gender to implement different policies in this country. the sixth graduation of the Institution of Community Development, Tengeru it has produced successful graduates of diploma, the first certificate and the diploma of masters of community development.
T154 how are you Tanzanians -- how are you my name is Tumaini Meshack I am with my companion . my name is Maasai of to download or you can say the defender of the cold weapon . if you ask me where I left the gun I tell you I left it on the chat and this is Minibuzz . this day we will discuss -- two topics of discussion our first topic of discussion we'll discuss the importance of getting good nutrition and the second topic of discussion ? it says that is there anything that allows a child to pound his parent or to beat him ? pound is true . to pound . but before we start officially let's get a break when we return we will start with our topic of discussion (()) sit there tightly don't move from there . <no-speech> we've returned -- we've returned Maasai what does our first topic of discussion say for today ? our first topic of discussion for today says that do we understand the importance of eating food with good nutrition ? as a result of the system of life these days it has been a system -- that we are going everything is at a high speed therefore many people don't consider getting good nutrition . we don't -- we don't consider to get that balanced diet . we leave at five o'clock in the morning and we return at nine o'clock even at our homes we leave children who are raised by house girls therefore to get good nutrition becomes a problem . not that we're unable but it becomes a little problem . maybe I should have started with the sister there . you -- your system of eating is in what way ? my system of eating I see is very hard and not only to me to all workers because when you go there to work there is no place you can get -- cook your food that you want . all the food you depend on is for purchase . you don't know where they've been cooked ? others again here in town these days bring food in buckets I don't know even he has cooked and kept -- you're just served . and you have no choice to eat -- today I want to eat just salads and what . according to that also it is possible but for a high income to people of normal income is difficult to make a choice therefore what I do is I just eat fruits . so that I don't go back home when I reach I can eat good food . because the food you're given there in town I don't like them very much because they aren't good . when you say that I eat good nutrition is -- is what kind of food -- how have you been served the food honorable ? nutrition that I understand is a combination of various foods but one food . you eat that a little fruit bananas avocados you mix there . that's how I understand myself . why do you like to eat foods that we have (()) ? we eat because of eating or we eat because of being full ? why do we eat the foods we eat ? why do we eat the foods we eat ? many times in raising a child let's take when you're a small child . <no-speech> many parents the way they were raised they like certain kinds of foods . <no-speech> if we take those people from up country many times in the morning they can -- they prepare Ugali . Ugali ? Ugali absolutely with -- with fish or with meat and they go to the farm . but when we come here in town Dar es Salaam we have stayed for a long time . <no-speech> our foods depend on the whole day's rotation . many times we eat -- we drink a little tea in the morning . in the day we eat other foods . <no-speech> therefore it depends on foods that your parents raised you with . here maybe there are two meanings there are others who eat in order to live . and there are others who eat so long as they have eaten . <no-speech> what do I mean when I say another person just eats so that they can live ? that is no way out . that -- yes yes . that is he has struggled enough now he even lacks getting that shilling to go and eat . therefore and when he gets any another food which they call -- there is they call not leftovers others say salads are those leftovers in the local language . you find a person if he gets that then that is let's go . that one lives just so he can do what ? so as to live . meaning that he eats in order to live . there is that one who is eating now in order to do what ? to build the health of his body . and like normally ours Minibuzz we like to cooperate with stakeholders and different experts because right now it's the time of getting in . let's go to the get in . <misc>
T155 Zanzibar dismissed May 30, 2012 why do we interpret words? suppose the fact is that if the Union is to crush to be blamed is not Zanzibar but Revolutionary Party (CCM) that has failed to demonstrate the ability to defend the Union for deliberate movements and strategies and instead to promote the belief in disagreeing by opposing to the Union through guns, threats and force. it's a time of separation in Tanzania as the country has so much to worry about it to raise its people from the curse of eternal poverty. we have many things to do to lead our people towards economic independence and development that gives everyone a chance to succeed. it is impossible in this period of time to begin frustration and advocacy of the Union. issue of the Union was to be completed 20 years ago. because of weaknesses and bad leadership of CCM today we have reached the precipice of separation. CCM has shown us that they cannot defend the Union. no CCM leader is able to stand still to defend the Union. not their elders and not their young people, not their scholars and not their activists, not of the continent and not of the island. there is no Union defender. not Salim, not Bilal, not Makamba and certainly not Kikwete. we do not look at Mkapa nor Sumaye to defend the Union. CCM has lost confidence in defending the Union, so why not tell the truth? this is a time of separation in order to have two free and indigenous nations like international states that relate to the world through international agreements and international issues. failure to solve long-term issues has brought us here we must say the facts and facts to be known. what is happening now should not have happened if our leaders would have demonstrated the ability to overcome the problems of the Union. my brothers inability to solve these has turned these problems into 'Union's resistant disorders'. that is, it is a difficult disagreement. because they have been unable to solve for 50 years time has come now to accept defeat and give up to leave the Union. these resistant problems have shown and revealed the bottom line of the potential limitations of our leaders. neither Elder Mwinyi nor Mkapa had the capability to establish solutions to the challenges of the Union. Kikwete, who entered with huge promises has confirmed that he (with all his rule) has no power to solve these problems. who has forgotten the words of President Kikwete's heartfelt appeal to the Union parliament after he was sworn in as President and launched the parliament in December 2005? he is the one who said these words "we have a historic role to ensure that our Union remains and grows stronger. I am happy to say that our Union is strong despite challenges here and there. and, more encouraging to me is the fact that our both sides of the Union are committed to resolving existing problems with a view to strengthening it." six years after these words our union is weak and 'the challenges here and there' have been a permanent problem! Kikwete also failed! spreading hatred against Christians and Tanganyika it should be understood that those fighting the Union are essentially having a problem with Christians and people of the mainland and especially those who come from the mainland that is Tanganyika. some of the leaders of these lectures give statements that the ordinary person considers as a permit and call for evil to the people of Tanganyika. because, if they are mixed up, they are persecuting Zanzibar and Tanganyika people of Zanzibar, is it not right for Zanzibar to abuse their opponents? because, if Tanganyika is actually treating Zanzibar as his colony is not justified for the ones being forcefully governed by Tanganyika to rise against the people of Tanganyika? and more surprisingly (and annoying) their government also becomes silent on these actions. have churches started this week being burnt in Zanzibar? have bars started being burnt in Zanzibar the other day or is it that people have a sudden forgetfulness? the statement issued the other day to assure "tourists" that the situation was calm did not mention the people of the Mainland who on Monday had leaflets asking them to leave Zanzibar. this is not the first time for such leaflets to appear in Zanzibar and proves the failure of our country's intelligence system! but what have Christians in Zanzibar done wrong? is it really true that they want Christians to be only those born in Zanzibar and others who come and move there is wrong? as Sheikh Fared said in March, if someone did not announce any hostility or raise up arms against you how would you announce them enemy? all long as the churches are burned in Zanzibar, there has never been any mad person not even one thought of burning a mosque, when such a person appears is that not when war against Christians will be announced? you will also find it unnecessary even for a Christian to do so because another guy decides to disturb the Muslims by burning the mosque (knowing they will accuse Christians or the Heretics) are not these theologians proclaiming a permanent war? now, this should be said to these leaders - if they do not want Christians in Zanzibar they should openly say so, so that they can leave Zanzibar in peace! if they want Zanzibar that does not have a Christian identity because many Muslims say so instead of burning people their churches and threatening the lives of people. I say this believing that the actions of the churches being burnt and people of Tanganyika threatened have been tolerated and are not adequately criticized. we have not heard famous people from Zanzibar like Doctor Salim, Elder Mwinyi, Doctor Bilal and others giving statements to protect these Christians and Tanganyikans. they are silent. what does it mean? we have not seen any one of them visit these houses of worship of Christian that were burned up in January this year? what are they afraid of? destroy the Union completely for people reading my articles to realize that my current position is not new. April 27, 2011, I am writing articles in this newspaper, edition 183, entitled "our Union has no defenders be ready to break down". however, that was the conclusion of the argument I had built one year back. I wrote in the 147 edition August 2010 title of the article "they are breaking the Nation with the aim of 'strengthening the Union'". all articles were simply indicating that our Union has come to a place of agreeing to break it in order to cooperate as two countries. Zanzibaris who from the beginning their goal was that "we have already allowed so many of them in the country." since the beginning, they have been left to Zanzibar without being forced to totally disappear but want more. now the CCM Government has given them all, a flag, national anthem, its president, its cabinet, its parliament, various forces now that they want their country to can we keep them? how can we keep them? so somebody everyday claims to be given a table, demanding seats and coats, demanding cabinets and internal decors, he is coming and claiming the housing wall and all of it is given today he decides to claim the house are we shocked? did we think of those tables and cabinets that they had put under a mango tree? already CCM has agreed to give Zanzibar all the needs of a country, now the time has come for Zanzibar to be a country, get out of the union. as I said last year that our Union has no defenders then I have chosen to be a defender of breaking the Union. break it down so that we can be safe. I still believe in the African Union as the basic principle that brought forth Tanzania and I still believe it is in unity only that our countries will be able to succeed but this unity as the Zanzibar we do not want. the time has come to the people of the mainland to begin to emerge and make conferences and demonstrations to deny the Union. not because Zanzibar is against us or they can do anything against Tanganyika - they cannot - but because we do not want like the people of the Mainland to walk in blame of being against Zanzibar! we do not want to live and feel like colonials when there is nothing that Zanzibar do or do not do that hurt us or even add us anything. mainland Tanzania does not depend on Zanzibar for anything but Zanzibar relies on it and will continue to rely on Tanzania Mainland! now if this is true - and it is true - let Zanzibar be left alone. any history student knows exactly what will happen to Zanzibar again. since the CCM and its Government have failed to defend the Union and solve the problems of the Union, the time has come to let Zanzibar go. let Zanzibar go and return to their homeland to end peacefully. we love Zanzibar so much that we cannot struggle with them! they want to go let them go. until a generation comes to judge politicians and religious leaders who love collisions more than unity, hatred than love, violence rather than peace. these who want to break the nation there is a generation that will judge them severely. for us we say let Zanzibar go!
T404 'the fruits of online education haven't been seen' written by Gloria Tesha, Dodoma published: 07 November 2016 the government has said the fruits of online education haven't been seen on a big level in the country, because many schools don't have computer laboratories. the Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Technical Training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako, has said in Dodoma City that the government recognizes online education and by cooperating with other stakeholders it will continue to improve that education. she said this when closing a symposium of education stakeholders in the country, that was hosted by the Institute East African Educational Development of Aga Khan University. that symposium built on debating the challenges and opportunities of education and gave recommendations to the government. it enjoined experts of educational issues from government institutes and the private sector together with political leaders, including members of parliament. she said online education hasn't benefited many students in the country and that condition is a result of the truth that, it's only a few schools that have computer laboratories and many students still can't get educational publications online. in confronting that problem, she said the government will continue to enjoin private sector stakeholders and others to ensure that online education benefits all students in the country. "on the part of secondary and primary still we have a few schools that have computer laboratories to enable students to benefit, the government recognizes this and we are involving more stakeholders so that students can benefit with openness," she explained. the Managing Director of the Institute for Educational Development, East Africa and the Principal of Aga Khan University, Professor Joe Lugalla, said the issue of education development isn't a government one only, rather of all Tanzanians. he said Tanzanians are required to work by cooperating to bring up challenges and opportunities of education and to work on them.
T54 NEEC orders cell phone companies to sell shares on DSE November 21, 2016 by our news writer Dar es Salaam, Tanzania the National Economic Empowerment Council (NEEC) has instructed a cell phone company in the country to implement the monetary law of the year 2016 that wants to start registration and ownership of 25 percent of its shares to the public to join Dar es Salaam stock exchange market. the statement has been given by the acting secretary of the national economic empowerment council (NEEC) Beng'i Issa today in Dar es Salaam during a press meeting. he has said the aim of the change of the law in the communication sector is to add transparency in the governance of the companies and to increase tax collection to the government. Beng'i has added that the step will give an opportunity to enable Tanzanians economically to be owners of the companies through buying of shares in the Dar es Salaam stock exchange market. "cell phone companies in the country are supposed to implement these legal changes within a period of six months starting from the first of July this year to complete legal procedures for stock and capital markets by floating 25 percent of their shares and join the Dar es Salaam stock market so that the citizens can be able to buy shares with a reason of being part of owners of those companies in the country," insisted the acting secretary. moreover, the acting secretary has called upon all Tanzanians to prepare to participate fully in the buying of shares of the cell companies immediately they complete the procedures of joining the Dar es Salaam stock market. besides that, the committee will offer training to the public for a period of one month through various media in teaching and influencing the public about this important opportunity economically and also the citizens will be educated on how to buy shares, the benefits of buying shares and its effects. the national economic empowerment committee requests social preservation organizations in the country to organize a good procedure that will enable those citizens to participate in buying shares of cell phone companies when they join the stock market. also, it is closely following up the progress of implementation of these legal changes and to ensure its implementation is done in time as stipulated in the monetary law of 2016. the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, passed the bill of the finance act 2016 (The Finance Act, 2016) on June 23 this year where together with other things, it made changes to the Electronic and Postal Communication Act, Cap 306.
T158 by election
T159 Mgimwa to vie for parliamentarian in CCM. December 2nd, 2014. the Revolutionary Party (CCM) has approved Mister Godfrey Mgimwa who is the son to the former finance minister and the Kalenga parliamentarian, Iringa village district, the late Doctor William Mgimwa, to vie for the parliamentarian of that county. the parliamentary by-election has been planned to take place on March 16th this year, after the former parliamentarian, Doctor Mgimwa passed away in South Africa. Mister Mgimwa won in the referendum polls inside that party after getting 342 and beating his other eight opponents including the head of Pangani district, Tanga province Miss Hapsa Mtasiwa who got 42 votes. Miss Mtasiwa is also the commander of the Union of the Youth of that party, UVCCM Iringa villages. the others are Mister Jackson Kiswaga who is also a guardian of young pioneers Iringa district, who got 170 votes and Mister Msaphiri Pamagila who is the chairperson of the tobacco Association in the province who got eight votes. the election on referendum polls took place and involved 669 delegates from 13 wards of that county, where there were 9 contestants all vying for that position. speaking after emerging the winner of that position, Mister Mgimwa said if he will win the parliamentary seat of that county, he will continue the development process to the citizens that were left by his late father. he thanked the delegates who approved his name during the tough contest of nine candidates and deciding that he was fit to be the CCM contestant at the election. "if I will get lucky to win the parliamentary seat, I will start the development processes for the citizens with a shocking speed without faltering. I urge the citizens of this county to unite in all development activities," he said. while speaking about his education, Mister Mgima said he has a degree in business and economics and a doctorate degree in business and economics that he attained in America where for now he's a bank employee. while announcing the results, the returning officer who is also the chairperson of Kilolo District Council Mister Joseph Muumba said, Mister Gabriel Kalinga got 90 votes, Mister Peter Mtisi (13), Msaphiri Pamagile (8), Mister Edward Mtakimwa (3), Braison Kibasa (2) and Thomas Mwikuke (2).
T400 Member of Parliament cries to the government over farmers' security Member of Parliament for Laikipia Jane Machira yesterday urged the government to take emergency actions to stop the rising theft of livestock in Kinamba and Ol Moran areas. speaking after visiting those areas, she said that the campaign to retrieve illegal weapons in Baringo and Turkana County cannot succeed if the pastoralist community residing in Laikipia are left with the weapons. "attacks have increased and I do not understand why cattle are stolen in Laikipia and taken to Baringo through Mchongoi and in one private store. chiefs in those areas where cattle are taken must be warned or lose their jobs for failing to inform the government of these bandits," she said. the Member of Parliament said it is a saddening thing to watch citizens dying and being hurt badly and their cattle stolen by poachers as security guards appearing to fail. Missus Machira said that a perfect action is a must to be taken to get rid of all illegal weapons since the time has reached to save these areas from bandits whose aim is to steal and kill. the Member of Parliament added that farmers also must be protected from these bandits and she said she is ready to involve herself with the plans of conducting a dialogue between elders from all communities residing in the boundary between Baringo and Laikipia. currently, the government is conducting a twenty-four-hour campaign to eradicate the ownership of illegal weapons in Baringo area. Missus Machira said the continuing attacks are showing that the operation retrieve weapons cannot succeed if Laikipia will be left behind in the campaign. by James Kariuki
T401 several of various groups -- the draft had a positive view that women and even men who will have married citizens who are not Tanzanians will get the same treatment on how -- how they will be able to register them or to get the citizenship rights to their spouses . on just that -- we wanted emphasis on . because the time went to do the communication there were many questions concerning why women when they are married by foreigners for example they get the same rights like the way men get that for example if a man marries a Tanzanian citizen I mean a if Tanzanian man marries a foreign citizen her registration rights are immediate but as for woman there must be the criteria how many years you stay first and what that is rights becomes not available to who in comparison . <no-speech> that has united different stakeholders with the aim of getting the ideas concerning gender equality in the constitutional draft which will be presented in the parliament to be discussed . <no-speech> the head of Lindi province Ludovick Mwanzela have expressed her anger with the executive committee of Kilwa district for using the money for development projects for private interest instead of helping the citizens . Mwanzela has said those during the session of a special council of councilors of Kilwa district committee after the financial audit report of the financial year of two thousand and thirteen to show lack of discipline of that committee on the usage of money . Martina Ngulumbi from Lindi has prepared the following report for us . <no-speech> the session of council of councilors of Kilwa district committee started with Executive Director Maimuna Mtanda explaining the objectives of the session then the auditor read out the report for them . this special council is to debate the proposals of the auditor C_A_G that he has gone through . <no-speech> after going through them they have provided the opinions on what to be done . the committee to pay an amount of ten million to civil servants who retired died and even who resigned from job . instead of this money being returned into the treasury against the direction of minute number C_A three hundred and one stroke three hundred and thirty-four stroke (()) one %incomplete speaking at that session the head of Lindi province Ludovick Mwanzela has been angered by the executive committee of Kilwa district for using money for development projects for their private interest instead of helping the citizens . the money that was transferred from development fund to normal use without following the procedure I ask that this matter be the last -- the first and the last . <no-speech> I don't want to come to hear again . <no-speech> the committee don't do the job of transferring money to go into miscellaneous expenditures . which were planned for development projects of the committee you are taking them into other expenditures so that (()) how will people pay for maintenance ? let them go to a trip ? following that waste of money the head of the province instructed the Kilwa accountant to check out the ghost workers so that the legal action is taken against them . go and investigate so that you know who died who migrated and who did what . some quit jobs some are truants but the salary comes and goes . provide the report on involved areas so that money returns to the treasury . we cannot continue with this game they are thieves . and when we know who is involved here even those responsible . very well . on his side the interim managing secretary of Lindi province Abdul Dachi has said those are government instructions and therefore they work on them . therefore we will follow up and work on them and be discovered because already the instructions have been produced anyone who goes against the practices of the financial rule of law action should be taken against them . Martina Ngulumbi reporting from Kilwa T_B_C . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> the upper part of Mtambano mosque in Kinondoni_B Dar es Salaam city was burned by fire that caused a lot of destruction in that mosque and the school area . the fire that started yesterday evening was unable to be contained quickly because of the fast spread of that fire . the cause of that fire is said to be electric fault that started in the girls' dormitory in the Mingumoni Muslim secondary school that is located inside that mosque of Mtambani . reports are saying that the upper part of that mosque which was used as the dormitory of the students of the school -- of that school of Ngumoni Muslim secondary school the laboratories together with teacher's office have been burned completely there was nothing that was able to be salvaged . <no-speech> <no-speech> they cannot . (()) office is there (()) end of the news report and this is T_B_C .
T402 the disabled . <no-speech> do they participate in the decision making and in the different sessions taking place in the government and by private individuals ? or . needs for example like of . of who for example like for services of meetings that we need and us to enter to say -- our affairs . we are not given the opportunity to enter there especially when the honorable people come yes for example a minister yeah concerned yes or any big leader even when we ask for that opportunity to for us to enter -- to at least talk of our side we are not given . (()) that again -- that the disabled we have been isolated example (()) when they ask for regional meetings like for C_C the handicapped we have been alienated . we are not called . <no-speech> you see in many meetings once is like canceling in the full canceling . parties -- that are included like example parties of these religious people are included (()) these like people with AIDS are included but us the crippled we are not called . Adof Mbata T_B_C Katavi . <no-speech> certainly the report of %incomplete
T55 firefighters in Kagera warn the drivers in Bukoba. the firefighting and rescue squad from Kagera Region has warned drivers who do not take precautions against fire disasters to endanger their lives and the machines they are operating. that warning was given while it is was only few days after oil tankers exploded and caused deaths in Benako area Kasulo ward, Ngara district with what is related with not taking caution during offloading of oil in the tanker which was stuck in mud. Information and Public Education Officer from that squad, Sergeant Kabuka Odey said many fire disasters are caused by laziness and negligence. "other time when we stand them to educate, they complain they have a long journey, it is true that death of fire which explode in Benako they did not follow instructions of having caution during the time of serving oil," said Odeny. last year more than five cars was sprout and destroyed in Nykahula place Biharamuko district.
T56 2009 if we make up our mind, we'll manage May 29, 2012 year 2008 is coming to an end in books of history. it is a year that in whatever measures remain to be historic as a result of the various events that have left their marks in the lives and hearts of our citizens. this ending year has been memorable for many things, both good and bad, of joy and of sorrow, of laughter and of crying! it is a year that if we wanted to repeat it, we would find ourselves faced with the argument of choosing whether the good that happened outweighs the bad. I give my condolences to our readers who like me this year, have lost people close to them, siblings, relatives and friends we have grown up with, and those who have lost their spouses and their children or their parents. these are sorrows that are part of our lives as humans, but it is a grief that one cannot get used to or predict. it is God himself who is our comfort and our fortress in times of tribulations. to whom we submit and pray for mercy for all the lost souls, Amen. I also congratulate with a hand of blessing all those who in their various capacities, stood to implement their roles in servicing their country. there are thousands of public servants who with a doubt are finishing the year with a clear conscience before them and before the God of their faith, that they faithfully did that which their country mandated them to do. the names of the majority of them are not mentioned in public and what they did are not welcomed in the council. them that made the nation progress and reach where it is today. are they that despite the hard economic times, despite the various wrangles and the challenges in their personal lives, wake up every morning thinking about service to their nation. are they whose names are not mentioned during thanksgiving when the leaders are recognized and that when the books of history will be written, they may even not be mentioned. these brothers of mine are the hidden strength that has been propelling the nation's agenda and grant us hope that we too can make it. to these, we thank them for the service that has been worthy of praise in our nation for this past year, without you, without a doubt many things could not have been accomplished and this fight against corrupt people and corruption in the country would not have reached here. we thank you. together with them, all the same we have no option but to confess the sole goal of all who lead the nation and various departments at a time when corrupt individuals almost took over leadership by force with impunity. we got to a point where we perceived some individuals in the country to be untouchable, cannot be questioned or criticized but there are those that despite their personal shortcomings and even the limitations of their positions, have tried to do all that is expected of them! in a special way we must acknowledge the role of the Parliamentary Select Committee led by Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe and his colleagues and also Attorney General Johnson Mwanyika's team. these two teams to a great extend give us a little sense of pride for public service. we cannot say much without acknowledging the contribution of the various members of parliament who have stood firm in managing the affairs of the nation and demonstrated to us the differences existing among legislatures that we have. we now know who is the real 'defender' of our country and who exactly is 'defender' of his embezzlement and of his friends! this past year has drawn a distinction between people's representatives and the representatives of the parties! today there are no conflicts between who is "ours" and who is "theirs." we have come to the end of this year knowing well that if there is a sector of the nation that has faced enormous challenges is the police department and the department of National Security and the Prevention and Combating of Crime Bureau (PCCB). these three organs in a special way are responsible for ensuring us as a nation continue to remain in a state of tranquility, peace and under the rule of the law. these organs together with the department of the prosecutor are to a large extend responsible for ensuring our country remains as one, and a place where every Tanzanian feels safe. for a long time we have been writing how these institutions have been failing us and made us question if they really have capacity to accomplish their duties. it's true that we have experienced many challenges that we believe if these instruments could be doing their work accordingly in the past, we could not be here. that was the main basis of our criticism especially on the security of the nation. we believe that any place where such departments are weak, then corrupt leadership prevails. we have witnessed in various areas in the world and now our place is an example. together with our criticism, one issue that we have been recognizing is the special place of these instruments and as a result the prevailing environment, the sensitivity of their roles should be appreciated and their enormous contribution towards achieving today's fight against corruption recognized. IGP said Mwema, National Security Director Rashid Othman, Doctor Edward Hosea of PCCB and State Attorney General Mwanyika have worked in a hostile environment with enormous challenges. their departments have carried huge responsibilities of ensuring that corrupt individuals and their progeny do not prevail! despite the fact that they themselves are faced with a number of questions that still need answers we have to acknowledge and accept their efforts that have shown fruit in the form of desire. they still have a big responsibility to accomplish the fight against corruption, the murdering of albinos, robbery among others. whatever the case, we have to acknowledge and accept their contribution this year. we also acknowledge to a large extend the special contribution of the President of the Republic Jakaya Kikwete and under him, the whole top leadership of the country in how despite various incidences that could have shaken a country like Zimbabwe, have been keenly, firmly and assertively addressed here. it's clear without a doubt, that it's as a result of his leadership style which is new to most of us, that we can see the various things that some of us believed won't happen. in this approach, we believe this coming year 2009, we will see many prominent people standing in the dock. all that is a historical connection between the wishes of the citizens and the courage of the rulers' leadership. in all that has happened this year that have made us proud and of emerging from far to restore our dignity, we must confess that we too "can." all these happenings and many others and as a result of various people's contributions to the public service and outside the country, we must again confess with our heads raised high with confidence that we can. we can lead well! we can argue, we can manage our resources, we can develop good strategies that we can implement, and that we can build a modern nation on our parent's land. it is this courageous heart that we must cultivate in our people. we should not be fast to rush out in search of solutions to our problems. the issue of ATCL for instance is a matter that is within our might to attend to, as well as the issue on energy and some of the infrastructure are within our mandate. this coming year, I fully believe that our main responsibility is to cultivate a spirit of confidence and commitment to national service. I believe that within our youth, our children and adults, that thought of inferiority and incapability will be dealt with through action. we will challenge ourselves to do all that we can do. I believe that over 90 percent of our problems are within the abilities of our minds to resolving them, only if we will admit, confess and say that "we can." as we enter this new year, instead of changing cars, houses or just sending good wishes for seeing a year new, let's really make up our minds to transform our nation and start rebuilding it. we must go back to the basics this year and that is nation building. that will however not get anywhere unless it is preceded with the transformation of our minds. that, we must believe that we can! not just criticizing, not just complaining, not just to seduce and ridicule, not just to write skillfully, not just being able to criticize each other and blackmail, but to be able to really build a modern nation that is a real nation of the people "who are free and equal!" a nation that is the center of success for many people and the pride of its citizens! and we can! welcome 2009!
T57 we support 16 days against violence written by Theopista Nsanzugwanko published: 27 November 2016 the other day were launched 16 days against gender violence in the world that began on November 25 to December 10 this year. the annual event aims to have a collective force in preventing the spread of the violence in the country in five regions by providing education and mobilizing public protest against gender violence and promoting the importance of safety education for all. it is clear that this year those days are celebrated when the Ilala Police officials from the Ilala Police Station, Christina Onyango, say that the celebration has helped to increase community awareness, a step that has helped to receive more rape cases compared to previous years. he said last year Ilala received 216 rape cases and among the cases, 25 were convicted for lack of evidence, but this year 226 cases were received and 112 were convicted. so it is best for women in various areas to emerge in areas of the celebration in those days with a view to combating such violence and various training. during those days many women are required to come out to get education, they will also meet and see how to deal with the various challenges that arise during struggle against gender violence. but keeping quiet and closing your eyes on acts of violence is not a good thing, what is required is women coming out to provide sufficient evidence to combat gender violence in society especially women who are the greatest victims. these 16 days should not be lost but be used as a guideline for society and ultimately they will help fight against the actions that are motivated by various factors in society.
T479 mention those different questions we are talking about now ? right now Danny we are talking about the topic that says is it right to live as husband and wife without marriage ? is it right to live as husband and wife without legal Islamic Christian or government marriage ? this is a matter (()) love it or hate it are happening a lot in Swahili areas -- in the estates in the estates of ours even in white people's society . and is the reason -- even white people's society also is the reason why the marriage laws of nineteen seventy-one chapter twenty-nine sub article nine translates that marriage is a union between -- of mutual consent between a man and a woman or woman and a woman with the main aim of living together in their lives . and those marriages of one man or one woman or one man and many wives and your laws do not recognize marriage of one gender and homosexuality or lesbianism . therefore that is why -- and this stand -- was put in place that year by by honorable Judge J . Maina in the year nineteen eighty-nine in the case of Ahmed Said Kidevu against Miss Sharifa Shamte . they were meeting here . yes -- they were living together %incomplete this case I remember this of the attorney . they had live together but when it reached the time they wanted to separate the man then said I have not married you because we never tied the marriage but they had lived together . the woman says yes I am the wife because you have put me inside . we have live with you for many years . we have given birth to children . therefore the last day then it came the ruling that husband when you live with a wife when you agree . <no-speech> and now there is another aspect the section of one hundred and sixty that -- it has put clarity when it is managed that a man and a woman has lived together as husband and wife let them follow all the marriage procedures . <no-speech> you see ? you have lived as husband and wife even though you have not followed the marriage procedures but you have given marriage rights . because what is marriage that we are translating now . a girl thinks marriage that marriage is the agreement between these two people . woman -- wife and husband . (()) and hers husband his because when we look on the side of Muslims that a man is allowed to marry more than one wife . it has a meaning are four wives . up to four ? yes yes it means that it is an agreement between a husband and a wife . two sides agree . it means that already there -- you have agreed or what ? agree that you will live together in happiness and sorrow . and for this marriage to be complete there must be that act . it is a must that it happen if that already -- it has been made evident that you are -- are spouses and other things . therefore there already the word marriage -- has sat well . maybe sister there in these things do we see them in our society or us Minibuzz we are just talking ? have you witnessed these things ? without marriage without an act of marriage in church mosque or government . these things are there in our society . we see them -- they have surrounded us but I think it is erosion of morals that is beyond measure for now . because our elders in the past were very respecting different from now . now it has become what like is a certain fashion . people are living everywhere . because we have seen that it is a normal thing . what time does it start more in the villages -- more in towns ? but I feel it has increased more in towns . and why here it is pleasant -- it has real estates (()) because that is this marriage of to marry ahh ? to see a person -- to making a decision to marry and marriage and -- and living with a wife before marrying her it is better to live with a woman first before marrying her because it really matter a lot the reason you will know %incomplete that is there the behavior will be (()) . it is very easy to identify that girl who is the Swahili more so that Tanzanians to listen . that that is -- it is a must there that that is for that you see it is right to stay as husband and wife before deciding to marry ? here is true . because you I see calculation -- your reasons ? is the first reason that is it is there the chances of studying behavior you see . then secondly in the -- in the decision who it is the time of looking for this husband -- this wife this one should be with him later in marriage or not . you you have started living with a person ? for now not yet but they are there . people when you live without marriage me I in think all writings there is no writing that allowed people to live without getting married . but of -- the second side I am thinking I ask my fellow women or sisters that let's not love to make ourselves cheap . I think us we have made ourselves very cheap women . because if us women we were ready and believe in ourselves yes . let's be ready and believe in ourselves that us we are beautiful and there is possibility of each one of us to get married when the time comes . but a person it reaches a point she do not believe in herself that she will be married you find another one -- and now women have acquired behaviors . a person then wants to seduce her -- we call seducing when he is seducing me a woman often her gear now is marriage . she obeys a person I will marry then without money . without anything a person goes . but likewise the issue of money is not the solution of you agreeing to go to do an act of marriage or to live with a person without -- without marriage . of importance first to check is -- youths will you be able to live with a person once -- you will go to take all those process on a person that you will see that he is just a joker to want be with her . therefore people -- many people often cross . they see the matter of being with a woman is like a short journey . therefore a short journey at last has its end . therefore after the end he looks for another person so that -- meaning if he would have decided to marry that short journey would have not continued . why don't you laugh and the laughter has come ?
T478 church
T471 paradise
T470 national news . President Jakaya Kikwete is tomorrow expected to launch the third phase of the Jamie TASAF development fund which will be implemented for a period of three years at a cost of one point zero seven billion American dollars . Kulinge Mungi gives more information . <no-speech> <no-speech> while speaking to journalists in Dodoma the managing director of TASAF Mister Ladislaus Mwamanga has said that this third phase will aim at promoting the benefits realized during the second phase by enabling poor homesteads to increase income and the opportunity to uplift their level of consumption . because we have been in TASAF for close to twelve years . but if you check poverty is still there people %incomplete are the people who received all the most important services but they still don't go to %incomplete <no-speech> to use those important services . children who are supposed to be in school do not go but feel it's better for them to sell groundnuts in the neighborhoods children are supposed to be -- to go for checkups in their dispensaries which TASAF has helped the citizens to build with the government and concerned sector but still children do not go there and therefore for now this program is trying to see if these people get education and in good health the development activities might %incomplete according to this director TASAF's executive the third phase will be implemented in two phases of five years each whereby the money for the first phase has been availed through the Tanzanian government and the country's well-wishers . he has clarified that the Tanzanian government has already contributed thirty million dollars World Bank has given two hundred and twenty dollars the England Development Agency D_F_I_D sixteen million dollars the Spanish government six million and the American Citizens' Development Agency U_S_A_I_D have contributed nine hundred thousand for the purpose of strengthening TASAF's systems . during the second phase of TASAF a total of two thousand five hundred projects worth three hundred and twenty billion shillings will be implemented . from Dodoma this is Kulinge Mongi . experts and %incomplete
T473 Ugandan syn person from Uganda
T472 port syn harbor
T475 I am completing with Japan . it is a rescue group lowering bodies of the victims of the explosion that was in Japan where hundreds of mountain climbers have been trapped amidst that incident which will not happen for a period of seven years . by depending on helicopters the rescue work has continued to move those trapped on top of the mountain and the residents from neighboring areas have explained how the thunderous stones falling have been severe and frightening . the meteorological department in Japan has revealed that the dangerous period is not yet over with a bigger percentage being the possibility of the explosion continuing . therefore residents neighboring the area from a distance of four kilometers from the concerned mountain should stay on high alert and the domestic flights have redirected routes except the international ones . <no-speech> (()) .
T474 our stone superstructure, base of wood and clay! May 31, 2012 last week I tried to justify an argument by referring to the statement of the famous German philosopher Karl Marx, who once said that you cannot change the system of authority (superstructure) if the environment of the community base, including the economy (economic base), have not been ready. I said the system of governance in any society is the fruit of the fantasy and practice of the community. when Americans elected President Barrack Obama last year, they were not gambling. they knew that apart from Obama being the first black citizen to lead the world's largest nation, far from the fact that he seemed to have ideas comparable to the Socialists Manifesto, but also, apart from Obama having a sense of humor, they still elected him to be president because they knew they already had the superstructure they had set up and could not be played by anyone including the president. it is protected, together with other issues by the Constitution, law, free will, the economy, technology, democratic tradition and the level of knowledge of citizens of the country. so maybe Tanzania let us not expect that because we have democracy of many parties as the United States, and that we are doing elections like the United States, and that we say our constitution protects many human rights and freedoms as set forth in the United Nations Declaration, that we have also developed democratically. first of all, we have the greatest challenge as a society to achieve the democratic level we see in the West. and the issue here is not just having democracy simply because of imitation, but from the scientific and historical fact that there are some basic human traits pursued in their lives, helps them to relieve them from chronic problems that threaten their presence. various researchers differ in the way they look at Africa before colonialism. there are a number of researchers who have shown that Africa was a dark continent and administrative systems that existed before were inferior. there are real examples of dictatorial administrations that have been brutal and irrespective of human rights. in fact, there are communities that the day the king died was to be buried together with four living crews, one in each corner of the grave. but this violent example of African rulers those days does not help us to justify the issue of democracy because history does not leave whites safe. for a long time in Europe there were also rulers cruel even more than cruelty. and their other cruelty has not been put in the record because every time historians try to write the pen refuses to produce ink, and the keys of printing machines refuse to come up! but there are also researchers who have tried to show that it is not true to say that, all African communities were governed by dictatorially by cruel leaders like Idd Amini of Uganda, king Bokassa of Central Africa and others who looked like them. that there were African communities that had good procedures for listening to the views of the governed. there are communities where the king or the speaker had his council of consultants which he was obliged to listen to. and in those societies where the king or chief failed to meet or respect the basis for his power, he could then be removed through a process that guided that community. one political science lecturer in the country has told me that before colonialism there were African societies that had certain democratic value and attitudes (democratic values and attitudes). he said the difference was that those communities did not have democratic institutions with divisive responsibilities as we know in today's democratic systems, the government (the president and his team), the parliament and the courts. that in those communities only one institution (the king and his council) did all the work of law formulation, passing judgment, administration, and law implementation. in other words, in simple language, there was no other institution or agency to question the decisions of the King and his council. the logic of this column today is to simplicity in light language the challenges that we Tanzanians, and Africans in general, have to face scientifically if we really have the true desire to succeed in bringing about our own development. I started this column by talking about superstructure. this is an English word and may have many meanings in different contexts. one English dictionary defines superstructure as: "structure above foundations." or "part of ship above deck." that is part of the building on the base or top of the ship. another English dictionary The Oxford Learner's English Dictionary defines the word as something built on something (my translation), for example the upper part of the ship or part of the building that is based on the base. the second definition of superstructure states and I will write it in English first: "the systems and beliefs in the society that we have developed from more simple ones". then it is illustrated: "the relationship between the economic base of society and the political superstructure of power". and this is what Karl Marx was referring to when he said, it is a socio-economic basis that determines the type of administrative system that will exist in the relevant community. maybe we look back to the superstructure concept and the examples we saw above starting with the model of a ship. there is a Swahili proverb that says, "if you see them float, they have been created." likewise, there are people who have tried to show wonder, at how it is that if a coin is dropped into the sea it immediately sinks, while a big ship and heavy cannot sink. it should be noted that the original ships were made of trees. the idea of big ships was due to the understanding and experience of the storks of the trees that human beings had at that time. a tree log was dug in the middle to enable people to sit there and travel by floating on the water. but as the need, knowledge, skill and dread grew in man, is when he made the best ship. over the past 1,000 years there were whites who came to be known as Vikings. they were only pirates who were traveling from one area to another doing mischief, including stealing, raping, fighting, but also doing business and demonstrating their skills in what they are good at. but the history of Vikings has been more favorable to them (as once recognized by Winston Churchill) by remembering them more not for their rape, rather in their skill to make big ships, stable and those that had been adorned very well. although they were wooden, those ships could travel long distances in the sea and withstand strong waves, unlike other transport equipment at the time. the superstructure of Vikings' ships was wooden as it was at the bottom of the ship (the deck) which stretched into the sea. as the years passed, ships were further improved. over the years, due to scientific and technological advances, humans began to make ships using iron. and I will apologize for the truth and forgive me if my thoughts will contradict the reality of what I am discussing. the superstructure of ships began to be iron and stable immediately after the base of the ship was iron and more stable. ships like the Titanic were really made big after knowledge, skill, and experience that a human being had collected from other ships to enable him to make it. and when they built the Titanic they called it "Unsinkable." which is not immersible. they knew that with the presence of many floors in the ship and the heavy weight in the superstructure that was iron, the base of the ship had the balance to make it safe. that base (base) was strong enough to handle the superstructure of the ship itself. and even the sinking of the Titanic was caused by an accident of hitting an iceberg. today, the United States has built a ship bigger than the Titanic. it has playgrounds, conference halls, comfort places, et cetera. its superstructure has more floors than the Titanic but its base still has the ability to sustain it.
T477 lawyer
T476 bishop hyp religion
T259 shield hyp armor
T258 the assistant secretary general office of the president in state house Susan Mlawi has asked girls and female students to believe in themselves in their various activities including education ones to be able to fulfill the goals they set for themselves in life . Susan Mlawi said that at a ceremony to handover support of various items for Sangara secondary school which is in Mvuti Ilara district in Dar es Salaam city . being a contribution of women from the office of the president in state house during the commemoration of women's day in the world . <no-speech> (()) mine that these items will help to reduce by a measure the shortage that is there in the girls' dormitory . <no-speech> on behalf of the workers of the office of the president state house I'd like to advise the students especially girls to emphasize on education to be able to fulfill the goals you set for yourselves in life . <no-speech> these people who came here from the mosque show that they -- they believe they can . and I have a lot of faith that this school will be an example and it will produce many leaders especially girls . <no-speech> on his side the head teacher of the school Angela Kapilima said the school which has day scholars and boarders is facing various challenges including the lack of a fence a situation which bothers students who live in that school . <no-speech> our concern is that the safety of the hostel students and their properties are in great danger . because many have turned the middle of the hostel into a path and therefore whilst someone can walk past if they find something they can walk away with it . therefore it has been much of a challenge for our hostel . (()) there are day students who come to steal our things because windows are open at all times with that the day students especially the boys who stay in the quarries come and steal our shirts and our clothes . therefore we ask you when we're here in school there are people who are day scholars I mean someone can take anything in there and sell it to a day scholar . with that challenge we were requesting to be helped and for the fence to be pruned or else there should be specific guards watching over the area for the purpose of checking %incomplete <no-speech> those women have also planted trees in the school's compound in order to improve the environment .
T497 poem
T496 'federation cup is confusing' Matereka Jalilu, Mwananchi oalbert@mwananchi.co.tz Dodoma. misunderstandings about the federation cup match that is organized by the Tanzanian football federation (TFF) came out in the middle of this week from some teams failing to arrive in the field for different reasons. in Dodoma town, CDA was to play against Milambo of Tabora. information of that match have been released at the time when leaders of that team were asking themselves without answers the exact day of that game because of unavailability of official information that showed the date together with the field that will be used for that match. secretary general of CDA 'home children', Ringo Mussiba said they did have that match information until the other day Wednesday when was told by TFF that CDA will host Milambo and the game will be played in Jamhuri grounds Dodoma. "the problem of this federation cup even last season has more challenges, information is not released as it should be like other leagues but also the organization of the match itself, clubs are suffering even the available share we are not given all." Mussiba said that Milambo will be forced to pitch more than 10 camps in Dodoma town because apart from that match it will wait January first to play second division league games, his the second round game after the previous match in Tabora town after it ended in a tie of 1-1 at Ali Hassan Mwiny grounds. at the same time CDA and Polisi Dodoma have been given eight balls by Dodoma province football association (Dorefa) in order to improve their preparations for the game particularly after those two teams did well away last week.
T495 improve transportation
T494 mm ask me . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . where did the boy you used to love go ? <no-speech> which boy ? <no-speech> <no-speech> that boy you used to love you told me that he is your husband the one who was to marry you where did he go ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . imagine I don't even know where he went . <no-speech> okay then . you greet him and tell him %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> I am waiting to see him too . I want to see him too . it has been a long time . <no-speech> ahh he will come you will see him . <no-speech> <no-speech> if I may ask %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> when will you come to our home Ukambani Kitui ? <no-speech> ahh . <no-speech> there I will %incomplete mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> there are so many boys . <no-speech> <no-speech> when you come you will be pleased by so many . others are called Brian %incomplete <no-speech> hah . <no-speech> and I heard one is called Jane ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> he is the one you will be so pleased with . <no-speech> so that is the one you really want to see ahh . <no-speech> others pretend to be saved but they are not saved . the things someone talks %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> you cannot even be pleased yourself . <no-speech> mm I want %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> I just want that Jane . <no-speech> you will find her -- you will find her . <no-speech> and you have thought %incomplete what should I tell her if I see her ? <no-speech> <no-speech> tell her I want I really need to talk to her . <no-speech> <no-speech> fine . I will tell her -- I will tell her today . you know I have been send to the shop by my grandmother %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> so when I am back from the shop I will pass by her home then I will talk to her and I will show you . <no-speech> ahh . I will be grateful . woah . <no-speech> I will give you the phone to talk to her and then later on you %incomplete <no-speech> mm . she will take your number to call you . <no-speech> <no-speech> and may I ask you ? <no-speech> <no-speech> ask me my sister . <no-speech> does James have other girls or how is his lifestyle ? <no-speech> sorry I can't lie to you . I don't know if he has other girls or it is a lie . because when I see him at home %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> he is a humble boy he is not a lady's boy he is not bothered he is just a humble boy . I cannot lie to you you know you are like my sister you are my friend . <no-speech> so there is no way I can lie to you and tell you that the boy does not have girls the thing is if you find him yourself %incomplete <no-speech> mmhm . don't let him go . <no-speech> <no-speech> I have not told you %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> I have found another one here %incomplete <no-speech> what is his name ? <no-speech> he is called Maurice . <no-speech> ohh . I have once seen him I have once met him I have once talked to him he has once greeted me . or is he not from our houses %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh . he is not the one from your houses . <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh . sorry . you could have just told me to see him I desire to see him too . if you loved him I too can see him talk to him and desire to love him too . ahh . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> but I don't want that . you will love him and he will leave me . <no-speech> <no-speech> yeah . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you will love him and he will leave me . mm there are some fools who have passed by and found me talking with you on phone and then they started whispering how we're in love . <no-speech> tell them loving one another is the life today .
T493 <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> this child is making noise . hello . hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> hello -- hello how are you ? talk to me . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> say . <no-speech> hello . say . <no-speech> <no-speech> tell me . <no-speech> I hear you say . <no-speech> <no-speech> do you hear me ? mm I wanted to ask you about your Swahili teacher -- where did that your Swahili teacher go to ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> come again ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> that your Swahili teacher in your previous school . hello -- I am asking %incomplete what -- how what happened ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . tell me . <no-speech> <no-speech> your Swahili teacher . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> come again ? your Swahili teacher from Mutuma . <no-speech> <no-speech> that your Swahili teacher from Mutuma . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I am asking ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello I am asking -- hello I am asking where is your Swahili teacher friend ? hello . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm ? who of Swahili ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm please move away from that noisy place . <no-speech> its you who is in a noisy place . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> come again ? <no-speech> are you hearing me ? <no-speech> hello can't you hear me ? you hear me ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> hello . you hear me ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm but you are at a noisy place . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you hear me ? <no-speech> I hear you . I'm there there's not even any noise at the place I'm at . <no-speech> <no-speech> me I am not in a noisy place . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . come again ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I am not in a noisy place . <no-speech> I am asking ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> there is no noise it's you who is in a noisy place and %incomplete then they are those machines . <no-speech> <no-speech> oh God are you inside a hole ? tell me . <no-speech> <no-speech> go away . <no-speech> mm ? you are inside a hole please come out of the hole you have entered mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> don't you hear me ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I am saying you come out of the hole you have entered because I can't even hear you . <no-speech> you don't hear me ? mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> now I have started to hear you . do you hear me ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello I am asking that your Swahili teacher (()) where is she ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what is that ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> for real you are in a noisy place . <no-speech> I am asking gosh for real you are at (()) %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I am outside -- am outside . there is no noise . <no-speech> I am asking %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> what are you asking ? <no-speech> it is me who is hearing that the place which you are is noisy hey switch off (()) %incomplete <no-speech> ahh ? <no-speech> Emma I am outside now . hello is you are outside please then get into the house if you are outside . <no-speech> hello tell me are you really in town ? (()) %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> I have come out of the house by the way inside -- inside the house I was not -- we were not communicating well . I am in a vehicle . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> so now I am outside . <no-speech> <no-speech> I am inside the vehicle myself . <no-speech> whom are you with in the house ? remain in the vehicle that is why you will have to alight from the vehicle . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . hello talk to me . <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh I cannot alight from the vehicle so that I call you . <no-speech> ahh I cannot talk when I alight from the vehicle we should talk now . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> okay talk to me then . <no-speech> who are you with in the house ? inside the house ? I am asking about that your Swahili teacher in Mau where is he ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I am in -- am outside . no where is that your Swahili teacher of Mautuma ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what is that ? who are you with in the house ? <no-speech> <no-speech> so really who am I supposed to be with ? who are you with in the house ? I am alone -- alone . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh Dan is not there ? <no-speech> pardon ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> hello . I am asking if Dame is there ? <no-speech> Delvin ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh as -- as usual he is in school . Del is not there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> pardon ? <no-speech> <no-speech> Del you are crazy how can Del go to school the way he is young . hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . I am asking how can Del go to school the way he is young ? <no-speech> hello I am saying I am asking how can Del go to school the way he is young obviously he cannot go . *school* ? <no-speech> really *you don't know* nowadays there is -- *you don't know* nowadays %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> schools nowadays have day care . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> do you also have a day care ? mm as in by the way even he does not drink . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> I can't even hear . <no-speech> <no-speech> <foreign> %incomplete mm say . <no-speech> we are telling you %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> you don't know there is a day care nowadays ? I hear you . <no-speech> <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> or you want %incomplete ah ? <no-speech> I am telling you that Delvin has gone to school . say and %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> I talk . <no-speech> how can he go to school you are crazy . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <foreign> they are going to a school with day care ? mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> if he goes to school then he is not normal . <no-speech> <no-speech> do you know he have just come out (()) laptops that now have been produced for school children ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> now you know they have to -- have to go school when younger ? ahh you he cannot go to school . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> come again ? <no-speech> I am telling you that now everything is free . <no-speech> <no-speech> he cannot go to school . <no-speech> why can't he go because he is older or -- or what ? you firstly Mercy was saying that she wants to come to that your place . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what do you mean ? <no-speech> I am saying Mercy was saying that she wants to drop by your place tomorrow . Mercy -- Mercy wanted to come there at your place tomorrow . she wants to come here tomorrow ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I earn just ten thousand here and consume . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? just give that ten thousand here - come with ten thousand . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . gosh I am not even hearing . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . I am saying Mercy wanted to come there at your place tomorrow . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I have heard you and that's why I told you that she come with ten thousand for food . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> ohh okay then . <no-speech> <no-speech> let me ask you what time tomorrow is she coming ? okay I will tell you . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> we will be able to come to visit you tomorrow ? <no-speech> <no-speech> tomorrow at what time ? she wants us to come to visit you . <no-speech> <no-speech> tomorrow at what time ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> pardon ? <no-speech> tomorrow at what time ? <no-speech> she wants to help you to carry -- to carry the tent ? <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> no problem as long as she comes with ten thousand . <no-speech> hello . hello I am telling you there is no problem as long as she comes with ten . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you know food is -- food is -- food is mm -- food -- food she should come and buy . I can't even hear . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> so when she comes %incomplete hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> I am telling you as long as -- as long as she comes with ten thousand . hello she is asking that now she should not come ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello -- hello . mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello where are you ? hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello talk to me I am in the vehicle . I am telling you %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it's you %incomplete I have been in the house -- in the house and I am tired because in the house I can't hear anything at all I am just hearing only those machines . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . I am telling you -- you think minutes -- when will ten minutes be over when I am out here ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> mm ? I am telling you %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . mm say mm hello I can hear you . <no-speech> did you get -- did you get -- did you get the phone ? <no-speech> <no-speech> did you get the phone that was lost ? <no-speech> to get what ? <no-speech> the phone we lost in the vehicle ? what is that ? <no-speech> <no-speech> the phone . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> cell phone . I did not get anything . <no-speech> you did not get ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> I did not get . where are you Nyako ? <no-speech> hello I am saying I did not get . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> I am saying I did not get then first that -- sent me that my money today . <no-speech> you did not get ? <no-speech> <no-speech> then -- how do you find -- how do you find the day today ? <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> what is that ? <no-speech> how is the day today ? <no-speech> hello talk . <no-speech> hello I am asking you how do you find it is it good or how is it ? what is that ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh today mmhm there is %incomplete ahh today is good but there is a lot of cold . <no-speech> <no-speech> the cold is it because you are getting a lot of sunshine ? <no-speech> mm cold . <no-speech> me I feel -- me I feel it's just very okay . it would be fine if there was sun shine it would be okay . <no-speech> us we are okay . <no-speech> for you it's okay ? mum %incomplete mmhm . you know -- you know you are at home so you have covered yourself well . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you mean the day is okay ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> then %incomplete <no-speech>
T492 foolish
T491 <no-speech> our department has two main departments . <no-speech> the department of clean water and sewerage . the destruction of dangerous garbage and the management of the collection of hard wastes that are produced in our hospital . we have water reservation tanks with capacities of four hundred and thirty liters in total and we use the water that is brought by DAWASCO in our hospital and in various areas . <no-speech> that department also has technicians in it who work on and repair the equipment when faulty . it is therefore a complete department . it can be able to do its work well under my supervision as the head of department . the other department is the department of hard wastes which are produced in the hospital . like food -- food remains together with normal garbage which is produced in the hospital . we have therefore privatized it and it is operated by a contractor who is nominated in every tender announced yearly . <no-speech> the other department is the one for dangerous wastes produced in the hospital . there are many wastes produced when patients are treated . those wastes are therefore burnt and destroyed completely . <no-speech> and in that department we have a very good modern equipment which has the ability to destroy approximately one thousand kilos of dangerous wastes daily . the machine has -- it has been made with two chambers which are used in that destruction . it uses temperatures approximately eight hundred to nine hundred and fifty in that destruction . while destroying the wastes the first chamber becomes the chamber for -- for putting in wastes which we call the primary chamber . into which wastes are dropped and -- and lit with the smoke resulting and -- the burning of those wastes is done in a different secondary chamber which destroys the smoke and the remaining wastes which are -- which -- which go into the air . our machine is modern . it can destroy those wastes by a huge amount and we can remain with just ten percent of the wastes as ash . because if we burn one thousand kilos of wastes %incomplete therefore ten percent of one thousand kilos are the wastes that remain . it's clear that you have gotten enough details on how clean and safe the Muhimbili National Hospital is run for patients . <no-speech> next time .
T490 in any kind of life there is success which doesn't miss challenges . <no-speech> but from the period that he said my brother Superman Simbe that that period that's when I was chief of communications . there are many things that I did but I beg to say about two things which I believe even if I say it people who know the police force well will agree with me . one it's true that first the police force in the country under I_G_P Mwema had emphasized that there is no success without communication . <no-speech> therefore my challenge is that what is the chief of communications coming to do for the work to be successful in the force . of the police . <no-speech> but now as a result of the plans of the police force and the country in general %incomplete and let's remember that the moment I just got at the headquarters it the was the start of the preparations for the two thousand and ten general elections . <no-speech> and the ruling party's C_C_M's declaration had said towards general election the communication should have reached the ward level . <no-speech> okay . and when the government makes such orders it means every department and every concerned operative is making efforts to reach the stadium as they said . now this thing reached in time . when I say that Superman understands because our communications were ending mostly at the provinces . of all levels . <no-speech> three big radio communication (()) . <no-speech> there are direct communications in which you can speak to someone even outside the country by just using the mast up there . <no-speech> but there are communications of short wavelengths through which you can closely communicate with someone . but if you also want to communicate with a person from far you must put something in between called a repeater . <no-speech> now at the time I was getting into the headquarters these repeaters were only in the provinces . therefore they were not in the districts . <no-speech> but I thank God that it was possible through a major cooperation of the police force and some assistance from U_N_D_P and cooperating with the electoral commission . <no-speech> we got communication that is accessible even at the wards up to this day . and even if there is a place that lacks it right now maybe these are new provinces or districts that were started and I don't know how they are doing . <no-speech>
T499 makeup syn cosmetics
T498 axe evf tool
T342 Africa can't escape donations - Kikwete. Harieth Makweta, Citizen, hmakweta@mwananchi.co.tz. Dar es Salaam. the forth term president Jakaya Kikwete has said that African countries can't escape donations from European countries because those donations are their historical responsibility. Kikwete said that yesterday during the launch of a two day meeting discussing 17 new objectives of the United Nations that concern 'sustainable development for 2030'. the meeting has put efforts to discuss the 16th objective that urges rights, peace and associative societies, especially in legal governance issues as the yeast to sustainable development. Kikwete said that duty is supposed to be continued because the development of European countries came from the resources they took from Africa during the colonial period. he said the African countries have enough natural resources and therefore, for them to work, there is still need for investment which will uplift industries and grow the economy of the African countries, and without that, it will take a long time to reach far economically. however, he said African countries must put in place procedures on how to receive those donations, but the aim should be to benefit the locals and by following the laws of the countries and international ones. "the donations we're talking about do not have to be financial, but we need them to invest more in legal contracts that protect the locals. for example, we have enough natural resources in Tanzania like gas, minerals and others but all these need to be extracted and processed. we must give them a chance to effect but through laws that will protect Tanzanians," said Kikwete. that statement from Kikwete comes after the fifth term President John Magufuli has already put a stand in his several speeches, urging Tanzania to be self-dependent by a huge percentage instead of relying on foreign aid. while putting the foundation stone to a flyover at the junction of Mandela and Nyerere roads in TAZARA areas, President Magufuli called the donors' aid 'mocking bread' saying it is better to eat cassava instead of eating that bread. even though he didn't clarify or speak in detail about that statement, he made it a few days since the American Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) suspended aid worth 472.8 American dollars, close to 1 trillion shillings on allegations that Tanzania violated democracy principles by repeating the Zanzibar election and failing to manage the cybercrimes law. also, President Magufuli on March 29th while in Mlimani village, Chato District in Geita Province said that the biggest duty that is ahead of the Tanzanians for now is uniting and being self-reliant in development so that everyone ensures an increase in production and performance at their work place. "therefore, we must rely on ourselves, and if we do so, everyone should be responsible where ever they are. a worker should should work diligently, a farmer should farm diligently, a trader should trade diligently, a breeder should breed diligently, a fisherman should fish diligently and we will cross over Tanzania," he said. the meeting was organized by the International Development Law Organization (IDLO) with its headquarters in Italy, whose custodian in Tanzania is the third term retired president, Benjamin Mkapa. speaking during that meeting, Mkapa said that for any country to develop, there must be a citizens' constitution that will not focus on one group. "previously, many African countries had no citizens' constitution and instead there was a party's constitution which for now remains in only dictatorial countries. for now, we focused on putting in place policies and strict strategies so as to implement new world objectives under the new United Nations compass of the world's developments," said Mkapa. the state minister, Office of the President, Service and Good Administration, Angela Kairuki said as it is for African countries' agenda, a country can't have good legal administration if there isn't a good access to the law. "you must put in place good systems to resolve conflicts too, the issuance of permits without bribes, and even in investment, without good laws protecting that side, it is difficult for investors to be present," said Kairuki. the executive director of IDLO, Irene Khan said that meeting put efforts to discuss rights, peace and associative societies. "the objective is to have a new world development compass that focuses on eradicating poverty, protecting the environment, fighting the climatic changes and involving all groups in the society in development matters," said Khan.
T318 prostitution . <no-speech> Amos Kiando is a teacher at Dar es Salaam airport primary school . he says the government has a responsibility of doing it since it has great power if it genuinely decides to do away with this issue . first the government should work diligently on this issue . in the past I would see certain vehicles passing and gathering them to try and have seminars with them . the government can totally have seminars with teachers evangelists and several other servants . in order to be able to eliminate this problem I ask the government to work keenly to eliminate the problem . as government it has more power than the authorities to be able to arrest maybe those who peddle themselves and take legal action against them if required . because who are the customers to those peddling themselves out there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> it is people like me . <no-speech> it is a father like me . and I have a daughter who's in school . now I am trying to ask myself . I can go ahead and take Glory's or someone's child . a young girl the same age as yours who is in school . now I don't know how you'll advise that one of yours who is in school ? now that's the thing that's causing confusion . I think even we who are customers we get to a stage where we respect our marriages we stop going (()) because she has reached where she will miss . she won't go to the market if she misses . and if it's the majority are those of us parents who saw our children (()) are the facilitators of this if they sit until evening and in the morning they see no business they don't go there mm . therefore in one way or another we are contributors . and we expect that because we have the desire for -- the desire of our bodies of being unable to -- to -- desist or these days you say flings are not very . and when we fling let's respect our families . let's respect our marriage . and even we should be ashamed . you're looking here what is the child's age group -- so viewer you have heard .
T319 back evf anatomy
T223 good apple farming - apples. an apple is one popular fruit in the world which is normally eaten by people from all communities, this is as a result of its sweetness in addition to health benefits found in eating apples. these fruits flourish more in highlands where there's no heat, areas such as Lushoto, Arusha, Kilimanjaro slopes, Mbeya, Iringa, Njombe, Songea et cetera. the soil is very fertile and doesn't leak water. you can plant using seeds or by buying good seedlings from agricultural institutions such as Uyole Mbeya. if you'll use seeds, then it's good to buy good seeds or if you fail to get seeds then try to use the ones you'll get from the fruit itself. if you'll take the ones from the fruit then dry them on the sun first until they're fully dry, the ones that are bought are normally dry so there's no need to dry them, take a soft paper (napkins/tissues) soak it in a small amount of water then take your seeds and tie them using this paper well then put them in a fridge for a period of 3 - 4 weeks they'll start to sprout/growing, putting them in the fridge helps kill disease germs that might have been in the fruit or seed. take your seed and plant it in the bags or apparatus like a bucket, don't plant in the small bags because this plant normally grows a little big and has deep roots before being planted. when your plant gets to one to two feet it's a good time to transfer it to the farm. the distance between one hole to the other is 15 to 18 feet from one tree to the other. ensure you plant your seedlings during the first rains, the holes should have the height of 2 feet and width of 3 feet. put 1 tin of manure or nutrients and mix them well with sand. remember to leave a plate for the sake of tapping rain water or whenever you irrigate and spread an amount 3 feet leaves/grass to surround your tree, ensure animals such as goats and cows don't enter the farm and feed on your trees. after one year you'll no longer need to irrigate your trees because they'll be able to grow by themselves by depending on rain. pests and diseases. the pests that mostly attack apples are moths (moths) and also the black spot disease (black spot) is the one that mostly attacks them, in order to fight diseases and these pests ensure that you use in a destructive manner anything that has pyrethrum (pyrethrum) in it. harvesting. harvesting is after three years but back up seedlings starting producing early even within a year, although I advise that you shouldn't allow many fruits on small trees so as to prevent leaves from breaking and hence reducing the fruits before they grow remaining with few.
T281 our Njombe province is new . I will not stop saying that because we need development so that the province -- can progress . honorable speaker among the roads that have been worked on in Njombe province is together with Njombe-Makete road which goes through Kitulo reserve through to Isonja in Mbeya province . honorable speaker this road was put in the notice of Chama cha Mapinduzi has put as number one . <no-speech> in every notice of Chama cha Mapinduzi . but when this road was put on the Chama cha Mapinduzi notice of the year two thousand and five to two thousand and ten was put anew again . but honorable speaker it is not enough this road when when His Excellency President Doctor John Pombe Magufuli comes to look for presidential votes in Makete and Wanging'ombe district said that this is road is the first that will be built to the tarmac grade . honorable speaker I request that the government should carry out the honorable President's promise . <no-speech> honorable speaker this road is very important because if this road will be constructed to tarmac grade it will uplift the nation's economy as regards the pyrethrum but as well as in terms of tourism . for us in Makete there is the Kitulo reserve because this road passes though the Kitulo reserve . honorable speaker right now tourists are unable to go in numbers to go to that Kitulo reserve because the road is impassable . <no-speech> -- especially this rainy season is when it is completely impassable . therefore I was requesting that the government builds it to tarmac standard . the same way on the same road there is farm produce that is transported such as timber potatoes that you eat in Dar es Salaam come from Makete honorable speaker this road is of great importance . I request the government to build this road but also honorable speaker within Njombe province there is still another road that has been constructed . the Njombe-Mdandu-Iyayi road which also goes to meet Mbeya province . honorable speaker this road -- the residents of Wanging'ombe who grow sunflower and timber are unable to easily transport them to Mbeya but are as well unable to transport easily to Njombe to go to other provinces like Ruvuma . <no-speech> honorable speaker there is another road which has been designed the Njombe-Ludewa-Manda-Itoni road . this road honorable speaker is important because in Ludewa there is coal from Liganga and Mchuchuma . I also request the government to complete this road to be built on -- to tarmac standard the entire road to enable -- easy transportation of coal . honorable speaker we also have the Kibena Lupembe Madete road which connects Morogoro province honorable speaker we also request that that this road be constructed to tarmac standard but in the morning I remember honorable Hongoli asked a question and honorable minister answered him that this one -- he said that this road will start being tarmacked in the year two thousand and sixteen and two thousand and seventeen . but when you go to the speech on the thirty seventh page it says that Lupembe Madete one hundred and twenty-five kilometers the process of finding a consulting engineer for the purposes of getting carry out due diligence is ongoing . honorable speaker let me just tell the speaker that this stage is over . I expected that in that speech that (()) even that they start I expected that right now they will tell us that the tender is announced for the purposes of building this road honorable speaker I -- I have one request to the government regarding to the Lupembe region . <no-speech> in Lupembe there is a road that goes from Lupembe to Lukalawa it go -- it goes through Ikonda from Makambako . honorable speaker this road is a business road there are farmers who transport timber beans as well as tea a lot . I was requesting now that this road be moved from the local council and be made a Tanroad so that it can be built to tarmac standard faster . honorable speaker let me move from roads and move to the airport . honorable our province Njombe factory -- our Njombe airport has a very bad condition for airplanes . why am I requesting this airport ? in Ruvuma there is there is no real airport but if it will be built an airport if we will renovate our airport at Njombe and upgrade it to tarmac then that means many airplanes will come . therefore also the neighboring province of Ruvuma will also benefit with that airport . <no-speech> that is not all in Njombe we grow these flowers we grow very beautiful flowers there are many roses there we are unable to transport them -- to Dar es Salaam while they are still fresh because we do not have a real airport thus no airplanes come to that province . and thus results in the wavering of this flower growing . I now request the government to see the importance of this airport they construct it to tarmac standard so that we can also be able to transport in plenty to Dar es Salaam and go to outside countries . <no-speech>
T29 Information Officer Masasi has died. written by our author. published: 03 September 2016. Information Officer of the city council of Masasi, Clarence Chilumba died yesterday when he was being taken to more treatment to Muhimbili National Hospital after being injured due to motorcycle accident. the statement issued by the office of the city Director of Masasi yesterday said the director of that council, Gimbana Emmanuel is saddened to announce the death of that information officer which occurred yesterday while on his way to Muhumbili. according to that news, Chilumba who was also writing the news for Uhuru today from Mtwara province he got an accident with motorcycle on August 31 at evening this year in Masasi town when he was from work and was on his way home. the news says after the he got the accident he was admitted at Mkomaido hospital where he was given the first treatment and then was taken Ndanda though his situation became worse. eventually he was referred to Muhimbili on first September. at 8:00 pm last night he died while he was on his way Somanga going to Muhimbili and news about his demise was announced after it was informed his brothers. in another step, the chairman of the journalist club Mtwara Hassan Simba confirmed the death of Chilumba who was a member of that club. Simba said Chilumba died while was on the way seeking farther medication to Mifuba Muhimbili (MOI) after he got an accident with motorcycle on his way. addressing that magazine, Simba said after the family members and his employer discussed that have agreed that the decease will be buried today at 8:00 am in their village Malolo, Nangumbu county, Ruangwa district, Mkoani region. "right now the body of the deceased is being preserved in the District Hospital of Masasi, tomorrow morning we will travel to the village of the deceased Malolo, because of the activities of burial that will be done at 2:00 during the day," he said. Simba explained more and he said, Chilumba got an accident on August 31 while he was on official duty he had gone to follow up on a contract of putting up posters to encourage payments of tax voluntary, while traveling on a motorbike like a passenger. according to Simba, while entering into the main road of Masasi-Newala they collided with another motorbike which had two people. after the accident, that motorcycle driver who had carried Chilumba broke his leg and was admitted in Ndanda Hospital and was discharged yesterday and the casualties of the other motorbike were hurt but they are going on well. Simba said Chilumba broke the right leg but he was also injured in his head because he lied flat and there is a possibility that the blood burst inside because the situation changed and it was very bad and that why it was decided that he should be rushed to Muhimbili for more treatment. he has left a wife and children.
T28 <no-speech> hello . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> peace be unto you . <no-speech> unto you *peace* . what's that now ? me I was wondering %incomplete mm ? alright say . <no-speech> ahh fine . what activity is this ? mm . we are supposed to speak Swahili for ten minutes that's all -- just that . <no-speech> Swahili ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> (()) . fine . now activities why is he waiting for you up to these times ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it is matters that have been a little heavy . -- I am trying to -- to look for a solution so that we can get to continue but they are stuck a little . mm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what's up ? <no-speech> <no-speech> not that is matters have become many because of school matters of %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> studies studies work matters %incomplete <no-speech> but -- I am thankful even to go through there -- I passed through there what %incomplete are you a horse ? <no-speech> <no-speech> there at the stall but I didn't see you . <no-speech> and then I was thinking weren't you -- you were to bring the car we -- we repair it up to this time ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> now first is %incomplete okay . the car itself it has been going to take the children . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh school ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> now I am with Musa we have many activities . ohh . <no-speech> <no-speech> has Omosh come in ? mm . <no-speech> -- we will leave I think tomorrow or the day after tomorrow . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> now if he leaves %incomplete and then when do you return ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh he -- he will leave the day after tomorrow -- tomorrow or the day after tomorrow . <no-speech> now if he goes I will be with time . and then ? <no-speech> now and the motorbike you haven't gone to collect ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh the motorbike is for this week I am supposed to pick it this week after I borrow it . <no-speech> <no-speech> -- meaning even me I don't have -- when they come me I don't have what %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> I don't have a way -- mm I don't have a means to travel travel and that is matters have been very hard . equipment for traveling ? <no-speech> <no-speech> okay now what will we do ? you you what do you see we do ? <no-speech> (()) . I also I know wanted to go to Mombasa that way to see a patient . <no-speech> <no-speech> I was thinking if we will go together or ? <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh . to say the truth for me maybe is to go and ensure everything I leave is fine . <no-speech> yes ? I have to leave everything on this side is -- is fine ? <no-speech> <no-speech> so that I can be able -- that is I have the good time of going to visit the patient . mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> now it must take a little time I finish with two issues and then now that's when -- I go to Mombasa . now ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> now but and you are near there you could have gone to Kapseto police station you what you take %incomplete <no-speech> you take that motorbike . <no-speech> mm that's why I am thinking issues like that because -- at the end of this week that's when I think I will get that money (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> just a thousand my brother you can't raise ? (()) %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> even more -- madam is there -- is off haven't I gone with that one thousand ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> I have gone with that one thousand I went with it . mm . <no-speech> what did she tell you ? <no-speech> except -- except I didn't get her she was off I got a certain guy who was with her but he wanted even the O_B receipt . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> -- and you is there any O_B receipt you have ? <no-speech> no he wants that new cash receipt that has been paid . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh . <no-speech> <no-speech> alright then now therefore we wait until when ? mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> end of this week it is *ready* now you want me to take it and bring it to you and someone wants me to fix it ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech>
T21 Mrema should be supported to reduce prisoners in prison written by Lucy Ngowi published: 21 September 2016 President John Magufuli on July 16, this year, appointed Augustine Mrema to be chairman of the national parole board. Mrema, who is also the chairperson of Tanzania Labor Organization (TLP), was not at first understood what he was doing in comparison with the parole's work I knew, I did not think they were same. immediately after his appointment, Mrema met with Bajaj and Bodaboda riders, who were in Kinondoni district and asked them to write down names of the police asking for bribes to report to President Magufuli. Mrema understood clearly that when the riders were asked to pay the bribe and are unable the next thing was a trial case and then sent to jail where there was a great deal of delay. Mrema too met drug addicts in the Manzese area and talked with them. he admitted that there is a serious drug problem, but are those being taken to court who are in big possessions of drugs or those found with one or two doses? Mrema questioned and said, what is required is to arrest all those who sell and distribute drugs that cause those youth to be found with those small quantities. how I understood Mrema in this regard is that arresting the youth, who have been affected by drugs and taking them to prison is not the solution, rather it's meeting them and finding a good way to treat them that will enable them to stop the usage of those drugs. he said a drug user being sent to prison is not the solution because when a person starts using these drugs it is difficult to stop just like that, he needs education and treatment to cope with the situation. he said if the police are arresting drug users the place to put them is not in jail but they are supposed to start treatment at a special facility. in Mrema's details, if you send a drug addict to prison, he will be worried because he will not be able to get the drugs anymore, so it is best to deal with cartels that bring them. he advised when the youth are arrested, be sent to Mwananyamala Hospital, Temeke or Muhimbili where there are specialized centers for the treatment. in Mrema's performance models, I have now begun to understand that his main goal is not to have many people in prison but to control through education and listening to youth groups including Bodaboda operators and ensuring that those who meet the criteria for staying there are being released. that is why Chairman Mrema has made efforts to meet those groups and listen to them and give advice to the concerned, activists and the whole community with an aim of ensuring that there are no new criminals being taken to prison. let us remember that the Parole is a legal procedure that gives a prisoner who has served four years in jail and above an opportunity to serve in the community on special terms. but due to lack of money, prisoners in prison who should go and finish their sentences outside, are not released, therefore they add to the congestion in the prison. that parole chairman is fighting in order to ensure offenses that take people to prison reduce and not increase. that is why in recent days, Mrema visited the Bishop of the church of mountain of fire assemblies of God, Mikocheni B, Getrude Lwakatare and thanked her for the good she had done to release 78 prison inmates by paying 25 million shillings for them. Mrema asked to have many people like Doctor Lwakatare, in order to reduce congestion in prisons. according to the parole law, for a prisoner to be released from prison, parole officers must go to take a copy of the judgment in the court that judged him, and then meet the village or estate leaders where the prisoner will go to live and also meet the family and the people he offended. also, parole officers are required to supervise and visit the parole prisoners, a long process and without completion, the prisoner cannot be released. the lack of funding to complete the process, prisoners who have qualifications for release by the law, cannot be released and thus continue to suffer in prison. citizens we should support the Parole Board Chairman, Mrema to reduce the congestion of prisoners in prison.
T20 political rebellion is a democratic right July 16, 2012. the year 1958 shall be remembered in the history of African redemption meeting of All-African People's Conference that was held in Accra Ghana under the chairmanship of Kwame Nkrumah a lawyer of every African citizen (Pan-Africanism). the meeting was very important since it's one that cast out Patrice Lumumba and made him famous outside his bordering country Congo. at that time Lumumba had already begun to gain fame in his country in the movement of fighting Belgium colonialism but internationally more far in the countries that were colonized by the British he was not known. one thing that many are forgetting is the argument that emerged in the meeting between Nkrumah with delegates from South Africa where Nelson Mandela with his partners who were fighting magic rule. those conflicts were involved in which methods used to eliminate colonialism and imperialism in Africa. delegates from South Africa insisted that the only method to be used was the one for weapons fight against colonialists. they questioned that doing otherwise would never conquer colonial rule or minority rule. Nkrumah had another plea. being one of the head preachers of African socialism, Nkrumah was also a democratic system activist. Nkrumah understood the meaning of democracy and as he quotes that the democracy has to be one of the shield for Pan Africanism. in this way, he wasn't attracted to the idea of using force in fighting colonization despite being that democracy was the system of administration of western governments that had exploited African countries for a period of six centuries. Nkrumah believing that, the relationship between democracy and the struggles of fighting colonization and imperialism are inseparable. therefore it's healthy for one to be anti colonialism or imperialism and at the same time to be opposed to democracy. that is impossible. furthermore he understood that, nothing was going against democracy more than colonialism and imperialism. that's the same as saying that, a person with a heart of democracy is what makes him to continue having courage for fighting imperialism and colonialism. I believe that one of the mistakes of African leaders after their countries got independence, is to throw away the idea of democracy instead of making it an important pillar of the activities of bringing development of the African social philosophy. what confuses and worries us is seeing that, Nkrumah was among the first leaders who slide when they step on the democracy peel. it's Nkrumah who continues to use, for example, that law of colonization for putting people in the dock without taking them first to court, the law that even here in our place was use to manipulate the opposition. and it is also Nkrumah who changed the constitution of the country and made Ghana a one-party state which was his Convention Peoples Party (CPP). Nkrumah wanting to introduce a new governmental system that doesn't copy that Westminster democracy that is followed by Britain and many countries that were in the past colonized by her. he argued that the democratic system that allows many parties is a system that divides the society and did not have any productivity for young countries like Ghana. Nkrumah did not say that the democratic system governance is bad but he criticized that which permits existence of many parties. and he firmly believes that democracy can grow in a regime system that justifies the existence of only one political party. wanting the new kind of democracy, a democracy whose seed will be planted and grow on African soil, a democracy that will have roots in the history and environment of African traditions. unfortunately, those kinds of thoughts went astray. we have witnessed in much in Africa, even in our places, how the one- party system undermined democracy by violating fundamental human rights and slowing down the development. disregarding the democracy affecting the economic strategies of countries with a system that allowed only one legitimate party. the situation gave a platform to unjust leaders, dictators, to misuse their country's resources because there were no democratic ways to make them accountable. additionally, there was no transparency in the operation and implementation of economic activities. there is no doubt that democracy is an integral part of the development process in the African continent. those who say that democracy doesn't fill the stomach are mistaken. democracy can ensure the stomachs of Africans are full, as long as other development criteria are followed in ways that give justice to all citizens. democracy can fill the stomachs as it can greatly help in efforts to alleviate poverty in society. I do not say that it is a simple task or that all communities with a truly democratic system have been able to alleviate poverty. what I am saying is that democracy can be a shield to enable communities to protect themselves from corruption, misappropriation of public funds and lack of accountability from leaders. the important thing is that democracy also hinders strong people in society whether political or economic power, they will not be able to abuse those powers without being accountable to the law. when democracy is serving that purpose, then it is more likely to achieve economic and social development. it is easy to understand why a loud whistle has been blown in Africa to oppose democracy and see it as a Western ideology, used hypocritically by the West to oppress the African continent. it is true from time to time western countries have been using an excuse of democracy in plotting conspiracy of ejecting African leaders from their positions who go against the interests of their countries, as they did it to Nkurumah and more recently Mua'mmar Qadhafi of Libya. it is also true from time to time the same western countries have been tolerant and protecting African leaders who were brutal and were not following true democracy or even false ones like Mobutu Sese Seko. until this day western countries, led by America, still continue with their style of supporting and protecting dictatorial leaderships because they are their friends. and these dictatorial leaders are their friends when they are using their own interests in those western countries while cause disturbance, stealing and looking down upon their fellow citizens. when we are speaking and reviewing democracy it is very important to remember that democracy is not just one thing only but it is a mixture of many things. the previous thing is that citizens should have ability to decide their own things, therefore the administrative authority is in their hands. they should have judiciary powers that comes from the constitution and has the ability to remove the leaders whom they don't want from their positions. among the others that are needed so as real democracy can grow is freedom of press, freedom of gathering, freedom of religion that a person wants in addition to freedom of not worshiping any religion, freedom of getting information from anywhere, freedom of speech, availability of human rights together with the right of citizenship and the right not to interfere with personal issues in public. all that will not be enough to make democracy to be real if there will be no equality among the citizens, if there is no respect, tolerance and having reconciliation in families. a lot of people when they speak about democracy they give priority to election. they see election as the foundation of democracy. surely, election has a foundation in democracy only when it is done in fairness. the election of this kind gives citizen freedom to choose whom they want without any uncertainty of any kind from the Commonwealth leadership. in short, in real democracy, there must be elections that are done in integrity. it is not enough to have a system of democracy. what is needed in most of the African countries is to have institutions that will be able to prevent democratic roots from being easily uprooted. if such institutions are missing then it becomes very easy to kill the democratic system. we are witnessing that in Mali where after the existence of a democratic system for twenty years only one soldier, Captain Amadou Haya Sanogo killed democracy and drowned the country in disaster. history teaches us that when there is a lack of true democracy, it is not unusual to see hostilities rising, spiritual conflicts, and even bloody battles. where there is true democracy there is a state of peace, security, and tranquility in society. in the same way, when there's an injustice or complains in the democratic community has its own ways of making the oppressed to be able to remove their doubts of asking for their rights. another major benefit of democracy is that it enables people to expand their thinking. it liberates the people and gives them freedom of thinking, freedom of action and even going against ancient thinking. for the community to continue and have a democratic democracy, it's important for citizens to have freedom to compromise politics and to have thoughts that doesn't follow the current of normal thinking of the community members. the right to political rebellion is a fundamental and democratic right.
T23 the speaker's wife demands police to release him. by Richard Munguti Missus Caroline Wangari Gachema, wife to the Speaker of the Embu County Parliament, yesterday filed a case at the Nairobi High Court requesting that the police be ordered to explain the whereabouts of her husband who disappeared on May 19th. Missus Gachema explained in the case that she had filed that her husband Mister Justus Kariuki Mate disappeared from a luxurious tourist hotel while attending a conference and his whereabouts are unknown. it is alleged he had a phone call from a police officer. he left his phones at the meeting hall. while this was going on, leaders in Embu County led by Senator Lenny Kivuti, Members of Parliament Cecily Mbarire (Runyenjes), Mister Muriuki Njagagwa (Mbeere North), Women Representative Missus Rose Mitaru made an urgent prayer service at the High Court in Milimani, Nairobi. the service was led by Missus Mbarire and attended by representatives of various wards in Embu County. "we believe Mister Mate was abducted and is being detained. the government has the ability to look for Mister Mate's whereabouts. Embu county has been beset by leadership problems, and just recently when we buried 40 people who had died after consuming poisoned alcohol," said Mister Kivuti. Mister Kivut said, "we want Mister Mate's current whereabouts revealed. we want him now. the government has the power unearthing him from where he was taken." members of parliament, Mitaru, Mbarire, and Njagagwa were saddened by events in the county and said, "we will not continue this way, things must be fixed." "in the case that she had filed at the High Court Missus Gachemi has accused David Kimaiyo the Inspector General of Police, the Director of the Criminal Department (DCID) Ndegwa Muhoro and the Administrator of the Intelligence Unit in Nairobi's Starehe area."
T22 welcome keep staying with us . thank you so much Shaaban Kisu . so you have left us two questions . the first question you have asked do Tanzanians identify ourselves as Tanzanians and we know Swahili to make us be look like Tanzanian Saidi if you went out today and met a person what will identify you as a Tanzanian ? definitely it is Swahili . it is very true it is Swahili language . we particularly take that question to you . is Swahili a mark to identify a Tanzanian ? for any country to be known one of the identifiers is language but this identifier does not identify us well and it is not a national identifier because if you go into the parliament I think everything is understood . <no-speech> these are who when they especially come to our home do not speak English . if you go to courts judgment is written in English . so why are we doing this here ? there is a tricky person who has come from a distance and has ruled us from many parts . <no-speech> like our reporter said eh mister Shabaan Kisu that people deny even their nationality even insulting his mother and father that I -- you were wrong to have had that look . so the enemy has started there . <no-speech> he has turned us around he has destroyed our dressing our systems we have reached a point where we cannot call Swahili a national mark . therefore we have every reason we who are available to see that things are moving and take back Swahili be a national mark thank you . I agree that language is ones identity . anyone is identified by his language because language carries a large percentage of a person's culture . but it is true that we Tanzanians are so much identified by Swahili but I am surprised we have so many institutions established and are paid our money from our tax but we do not see if they are working to -- to protect and fight for -- the destruction of our Swahili language . for example we have B_A_K_I_T_A we have T_U_K_I the media is involved in destroying our Swahili language but we do not see them taking any step in correcting or using the media -- I would like to say that the issue of Swahili -- eh Swahili has become a mark . <no-speech> it is a mark and our national identity . but (()) to be honest is it a mark or our identity ? <no-speech> because we do not value it from the least level . <no-speech> maybe we could have said this Swahili is a mark from primary level because it is a language for teaching and it is a language of communication . but if you get to secondary school and universities it is a subject . therefore I would like to ask the media our systems and politicians to use Swahili in all fields . when a representative of a certain country comes to Tanzania they mostly like to use their language because there is an interpreter that when an interpreter is available maybe in English to interpret for the citizens to understand him . but when it happens that a Tanzanian leader goes to a different country from Tanzania he finds himself speaking English when interpreters are also available . therefore I think also in the universities this course for interpretation should extended so that when it happens that a leader from Tanzania to another country be accompanied by his interpreter to interpret to those of that country so that they understand but we should use our language as our Tanzanian identity thank you . so thank you so much our intellectuals for different ideas . so straight away let's go and prepare a grand debate so that we get different ideas in relation to our debate . I am so much aware that Swahili language is a mark of our country but I beg to answer in be it in a little more advanced knowledge . <no-speech> that even if you took Fanon's writing in one of the books he wrote the Black Skin White Masks that there are some black people but have covered themselves in white masks . <no-speech> but if you go to Caribbean you will find a guy called George Lamming and many others who kept on dispersing the likes of Albert Memmi . <no-speech> all these talk about the importance of language . <no-speech> but if you come to Tanzania or Eastern Africa you will find a guy called Ngugi Gerishon who speaks of a person who denies a language as a person similar to the one who lives in a dirty pool because he does not understand himself . <no-speech> and we have examples .
T25 the courts have set special time for 'sugar daddies' case written by Muhidin Amri, Tunduru. published on: 17 October 2016 Tunduru district, Ruvuma province has set aside a special time in court to hear cases and issues concerning men who impregnate primary and secondary students. that was said at the weekend by the District Commissioner Juma Homera while speaking to students and parents of the Masonya Girls' Secondary School at the 11th graduation of form four students of that school. Homera stated that it is evident the drop in performance among many girls in secondary schools in that district is contributed by the female students engaging in love affairs and thereby failing to concentrate on their studies. he said, in order to stop this, he urges the court department to conduct cases of suspects charged for impregnating students at the ward level in order to speed up the hearing of the cases by helping the witnesses not to go far as well as avoid case taking a long time as others are completed after the time for graduating from school has already elapsed. in addition, the district commissioner congratulated the teachers of that school for offering high quality education and enabling the school to lead at the regional level and being among top 100 schools in the nation in the form six examination last year, and he urged the form four students to set a record of ousting the fourth grade. earlier, welcoming the guest of honor, head of the school, Elice Banda has urged parents to provide their students with all the basic needs in order to avoid being lured to received aid from 'benefactors'. she said that the school has 533 female students from form one to six, and it is experiencing an accommodation shortage as a result of the dormitories being unable to satisfy their large numbers.
T24 internationally . <no-speech> international efforts in search of the Malaysian airplane that got lost are ongoing in the South Indian Ocean area for the second day running after signs believed to be the remains of that airplane were seen on satellite pictures . five military and civilian planes are involved in the exercise of searching for that plane number M_H three hundred and seventy that got lost in March eighth this year with two hundred and thirty-nine passengers while on a journey from Kuala Lumpur Malaysia towards Beijing China after losing communication with the airport's radar . satellite pictures that were shown on Thursday have shown things that look like remains of that plane in the far South West waters of Perth city in Australia whereby ships from various countries spread out in that area to look for those things . Malaysian government officials believe that that plane was sabotaged intentionally and diverted from its direction . <no-speech> constitutional court %incomplete
T27 T_B_C . <no-speech> small gold mineral miners in Nzega district Tabora province have requested the Secretary-General of Revolutionary Party Abdulrahman Kinana to intervene in the measure by the government to remove them from the Number Seven area that was left by the investor despite being handed the area legally and giving them mining loans . let's join Gerson Msigwa for more reports . <no-speech> the rally by the Secretary-General of Revolutionary Party C_C_M Abdulrahman Kinana here in Nzega District has taken place at the Nzega Parking Stadium in town . with small miners being among the thousands attending the rally they welcomed him with banners which had their cry on what they termed as the dispossession of the Number Seven gold mining area which was given to them after the existing investor left . we ask you to return our areas to us so that we can return our cash to pay debts . we will sit and talk . how come this small issue that has no problems and helps people get out of poverty seems hard with complications and ashes turning into bombs ? we will reach out to the Prime Minister who has the decision . <no-speech> the other cry that the Nzega residents poured out to the Secretary-General of Revolutionary Party comrade Kinana was the shortage of water however the parliamentarian of Nzega County Doctor Hamisi Kibwangalla used this meeting to explain the efforts he was making to combat that problem . and that the effort (()) . my intention makes me believe and understand fully and clearly that if we get a road construction machine we will sculpture roads in our whole county . should we get a borehole drilling machine we will avail water to citizens . and these are the problems of the citizens . I understand up to %incomplete before speaking with citizens in Nzega town where he has also handed over two hundred and two bicycles to C_C_M branch secretaries and the secretaries to ward level communities . three motorbikes for the purpose of C_C_M communities and two million shillings for the purpose of -- food and two million shillings for the motorbike riders . that were donated by the C_C_M cadre Husein Bashe . the Secretary-General of C_C_M Abdulrahman Kinana has participated in the building of the patients' reception area at Nzega District Hospital . he has participated in the building of C_C_M offices in Nkini Lake and Kipugala and he has also inspected the library at Kampala Secondary School . he has talked to citizens in the small town of Ndala where he assured them that the government is working on the water problem . Gerson Msigwa T_B_C Nzega . <no-speech> %incomplete
T26 motorcycle
T338 electronic tickets to start from Simba, Yanga. written by Basil. published: 18th September 2016. electronic tickets will start to work officially, during the match of soccer rivals in the country Simba and Yanga, in October first this year. while talking in his office in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Minister of Information, Culture, Art and Sports, Nape Nnauye said that the tickets will be tested on the September 25th game involving Simba and Yanga. "there are friendly matches to contribute to the earthquake victims in Kagera region, it will involve Bongo Movie and Bongo Fleva, members of parliament for Simba and Yanga and we shall test the electronic tickets for the first time in those games. everything is ready and after those temptations, since the Simba and Yanga competition those tickets will start being used officially to help seal loopholes, (revenue thieves) entry revenues have been stolen for a very long time," stressed Nape. the Sunday of September 11, 2016, Minister Nape, officially launched the use of those tickets in the National Stadium. the system is a directive of the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa concerning revenue controls at the entrances whereby it is a system that will require a fan to have a card like ATM ones, that will enable him to make purchases/payments while also having the ability to buy tickets for matches that he likes through the same card. among those given the cards to the stadium's entrance are Minister Nape, President John Magufuli and his vice president Samia Suluhu Hassan as a mobilization where the smart card will be released free of charge to the fans and after that he will begin to enter the stadium after depositing money in it. another benefit of the system is that there will no longer be a mechanism to divide revenue manually to the relevant institution, instead, if you want a ticket, the sharing percentage will be done more technologically to TFF, TRA, BMT and other relevant parts.
T339 fish hyp animal
T336 27 November 2013 Hoseah more suitable for the international bribery organization. the chief director of the corruption tackling and prevention institution in the country (TAKUKURU) Doctor Edward Hoseah has been elected to be the vice president of the International Association of Anti-Corruption Authorities (IAACA). Doctor Hoseah was elected by 460 representatives of the seventh general meeting of that association from different nations that was held in Panama, Central America from November 22-24, this year. the delegates of that meeting include heads of 98 institutions of preventing and dealing with corruption in the world where the slogan of the meeting says, "the rule of law and bribery: the challenges and available opportunities." before being elected to that position, Doctor Hoseah was a spokesperson of the main committee of service in that organization where, as a result of the nomination, he becomes the first African to hold that major post in the struggle against corruption in the world. the election is a great honor to Tanzania and the African continent, it is also a good opportunity for Doctor Hoseah to show his ability to lead the fight against corruption internationally. other international posts that Doctor Hoseah has ever held include the first president of the federation of preventing and fighting corruption in Eastern Africa (2007-2008), the first president of the platform of the institutes of preventing and fighting against corruption in SADC countries (SAFAC-2010-2011). others are the chairman of the advisory board of the African union on corruption issues (AU-ABC 2011-2012). IAACA is made up of 298 institutes together with more than 2,000 members from various backgrounds that are non-governmental and it was started on April 19, 2006, the headquarters is in Peking, China. the aim of starting the organization is to enable member states to execute the United Nations agreement against corruption that was passed by the committee of united nations December 30, 2003.
T337 Dennis . <no-speech> Venezuela has announced seven days of mourning following the death of the long time president of that nation Hugo Chavez . in his statement to the nation the vice president of Venezuela Nicholas Maduro has that said President Chavez who returned to his country recently from Cuba where he was receiving treatment for cancer died after his condition changing suddenly yesterday . <no-speech> yesterday the government of Venezuela announced that President Chavez who had been admitted in the military hospital in Caracas was discovered to be having a breathing problem and severe asthmatic infections . <no-speech> the military of Venezuela has announced upholding and protecting the state of the country and upholding security during this time of mourning President Chavez and urged the citizens to be calm . <no-speech> various friendly nations among them South America has sent messages of condolences to the citizens of Venezuela from the death of President Hugo Chavez who is mentioned as a defender of the weak who cared about the poor . <no-speech> among those nations are Brazil Colombia Russia Iran and China while America and Germany have been reported to have sent messages of condolences to the citizens of Venezuela . <no-speech> in his message President Mahmoud Ahmedinajad of Iran has said Venezuela has lost a brave leader where he is also supporting the claims made by the vice president of Venezuela who said President Chavez died from diseases that were caused by enemies . <no-speech>
T334 Afande Sele congratulated the government of Magufuli. its written by John Nditi, Morogro. published: 17 October 2016. Old Veteran Musician, Suleiman Msindi or famously by Afande Sele has congratulated the fifty government that is defined by connecting the Tanzanians in the development of the Nation especially youths regardless of ideological differences. has given those congratulations in front of the Vice President, Suluhu Hassan Msamvu in Morogoro city. the vice president stopped for a moment to talk to citizens while on his way to Dodoma region. "I have seen Officer Sele in front, let him pass in front so that we can greet each other," said the Deputy President before starting to speak with hundreds of citizens while he was in his car. officer Sele has praised the leadership of the government of the fifth phase for doing work and their responsibility to the citizen and being able to unite Tanzanians in the subject of development without caring about their beliefs. he said, the phase five government is doing a good job of uniting Tanzanians they way the founders of our nation, the late Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere together with Abeid Amaan Karume. "our founders led this country by uniting Tanzanians in the activities of development without caring different beliefs that their citizens had... this situation that the fifth government is continuing with," said Officer Sele. even though, Officer Sele did not speak about the current issues, different from the expectation of some of the hundreds of citizens who had come out in Msamvu area after being called by the Deputy President, the crowd of people praised by mentioning the name of Officer Sele. officer Sele, who is a fan of the second generation music he once famous by his hit music of 'Mkuki Moyoni' he participated in the general election of year 2015, contesting a parliamentary seat of Morogoro Province through the party of ACT- Nationalism, but he lost.
T335 the Minister and -- for Internal Security Professor George Saitoti and his assistant Joshua Orwa Ojode have died in a helicopter accident that occurred at around nine o'clock in the morning in Kibiko area near Ngong town approximately twenty kilometers from Nairobi city in Kenya the helicopter which had seven people including two pilots together with body guards to those leaders blew up in flames after crashing . <no-speech> early reports suggest that the cause of the accident is bad weather conditions . Professor Saitoti and his delegation were going to Ndhiwa region with the assistant minister for internal security Orwa Ojode in order to participate in a church fundraiser . Professor Saitoti who was an economist and expert mathematician graduated in America and is one of the famous politicians in Kenya who at different times held held positions -- various ministerial positions together with the vice presidency of Kenya . last year the late Professor Saitoti announced that he would vie for the seat of president in the coming general elections that expected to take place next year . <no-speech> it's exactly four years have gone since another helicopter accident that was carrying members of parliament -- Kipkalia Kones and Lorna Laboso fell in Narok area in Kenya . <no-speech> witnesses to the accident said they saw the helicopter circling in the air before crashing in the Ngong forest and then bursting into flames . <no-speech> condolences Kenyan citizens for that heavy loss and may God rest the souls of the departed in peace Amen . <no-speech>
T332 the Tasaf Zanzibar beneficiaries to be checked. written by Khatib Suleiman, Zanzibar. published on: 25 November 2016 Zanzibar Revolutionary Government (ZRG) has said that it is re-examining the targeted beneficiaries of the poverty eradication program under the supervision of the Social Development Fund (Tasaf). Assistant Minister, Office of the Second Vice President, Mihayo Juma Nhunga, said that while answering an additional question by the representative of Magomeni region Makame Shamsi. Shamsi wanted to know which steps the government is taking about inclusion of people without the required qualification in the Tasaf empowerment list. he said such incidences have emerged in the mainland where the government has started taking legal action and on Zanzibar's side where that project is also being implemented. explaining further, he said the aim of Tasaf, third phase is to enable poor households to attain success and overcome poverty by designing various development projects. the assistant minister said that individuals who are supposed to be included in that program must meet the required criteria and be recognized by the concerned institutions including the district government committee together with the chief. he said that the project has recorded great success in Zanzibar where a total of 33,000 poor households have been identified and benefited from the funds given by Tasaf. Tasaf III is implemented by the government of United Republic of Tanzania together with Zanzibar where a total of 12.3 billion shillings have been used on Zanzibar for the beneficiaries.
T333 Sitta warned. March 06th, 2014. the recommendations by the parliamentarians of the Revolutionary Party who are also delegates of the Constitutional Assembly that the speaker of the ninth parliament, Samuel Sitta vies for the chairmanship of the Constitutional Assembly have erupted a debate among some of the delegates of that vessel, with many supporting delegate Hasimu Rungwe warning Sitta not to propagate what he called the Revolutionary Party's curse. Rungwe who entered the Constitutional Assembly through the group of nominees by President Jakaya Kikwete has expressed his worry about Sitta's recommendation as the chairperson of the special Constitutional Assembly because..." he has the Revolutionary Party's curse of forgetting other communal groups in the country and fighting for their own side alone. however, Rungwe's worry who has not openly declared whether he will vie for that position or not just after the passing of the laws of that parliament, is being opposed by the other delegates who spoke to this newspaper, believing Sitta is their good choice when the election period comes because his record in overseeing parliamentary bills involving opposing groups is known. those delegates have explained their hopes or worries on the recommendation of Sitta, while several days are gone and big names are being mentioned to be able to vie for the chairmanship of the Constitutional Assembly, just after the official passing of the laws of that parliament. apart from Sitta, the other names that were being mentioned were together with Asha Rose Migiro, Mathias Chikawe, Paul Kimiti and Andrew Chenge, all being Revolutionary Party's members and party's parliamentarians, apart from Kimiti alone who comes from the group of nominees by President Kikwete. speaking to Good Citizen in Dodoma city on Tuesday this week, the Kinondo parliamentarian, Idd Azzan said he believes that history is giving Sitta a good chance to democratically lead the assembly. "if you remember how he coordinated the ninth parliament, you can't be doubtful of Sitta's ability in this tough parliament," said Azzan whose opinions are similar to the other delegates, when you remove the CCM ones who approved him on one voice at a private sitting last Sunday in Dodoma city. however, on the side of the nominated parliamentarian Ezekiel Oluoch, he said that the existence of strict rules of leading the special Constitutional Assembly will give anyone elected as the chairperson the ability to coordinate well the parliament's sessions and not his history. it is the rules that will enable whoever will be chairman to work well. it is a must for whoever will be there to focus on the laws, and it is the reason we are fighting to ensure better rules are passed. people are supposed to understand that this is not an ordinary parliament. it is not political and neither does it require a person with political thoughts or intentions. "the foundation of this parliament is mediation more than the number of delegates supporting a certain bill," said the delegate who is a leader of the Tanzania Teachers' Union (TTU). Oluoch also cast doubt on the temporary chairperson of the Constitutional Assembly, Pandu Ameir Kificho, saying during this time leading the parliament, he has shown leaning more towards the political side and his fellow politicians. he said Kificho has been giving a huge opportunity to people known to him leaving out the delegates not known, but who have strong arguments without a chance to air them. while speaking about Sitta, Hashimu Rungwe said Sitta for now seems to lean towards his party and he is for his interests. a person changes. Sitta of the ninth parliament can't be the Sitta of the special Constitutional Assembly. this one has the CCM's curse of forgetting the other societal groups and fights for their side alone. we need a chairperson who doesn't take sides because for now this temporary one (Kificho) has a side he's standing for. "you'll find that an argument has ended well but then he turns it around to erupt a new argument," said Rungwe. even though he didn't said he will vie for the position, Rungwe said he believes after the passing of the law, an opportunity will be given to those who want to vie for the position to collect a form, and that is where those who will fight it out with Sitta will be known from other groups. in another move, yesterday, Thursday, the situation inside the special parliament hall suddenly turned when all the female delegates united and loudly demanded for the review of the law that directs on how to elect the chairperson and the vice chairperson of that parliament. according to the eighth section of the draft of the special parliament laws, those leaders of the special constitution will be elected according to the 23 (4) section of the law of the constitutional change of last year.
T330 vice president
T331 Magufuli wants diplomacy to nurture industries written by our writer published: 09 October 2016 President John Magufuli, has wanted implementation of economic diplomacy to be emphasized on industrial sector investment. he said that at State House in the City of Dar es Salaam recently when he met with Ambassadors who are representing Tanzania in various countries in the world. the meeting which took place at State House in Dar es Salaam City, was also attended by Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan and Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa. President Magufuli who addressed and led the the discussions on various issues on ambassadors activities said that Tanzania has set a goal of nurturing industrial sector from a growth of 7 percent. 3 up to 15 by the year 2021 and create employment by 40 percent. "now I have invited you honorable Ambassadors to get acquainted, to know the direction we are looking for and haw you will participate developing industrial investment. "instead of remaining locked up in the office, I want you to come out to go and look for investors to come and invest in industries so that our country will benefit from our people getting jobs, the government will collect taxes and improve our development," said President Magufuli. other areas that the president wanted ambassadors to work on are to market and attract tourists to come in the country, to work on all opportunities that are of benefit to Tanzania in the countries they are representing Tanzania, to take care of the country's property that are in those countries and follow up on implementation of business agreements and investments done between Tanzania and the countries where they represent Tanzania. he wanted all Ambassadors to work with effort, to eliminate functional deficiencies that have been complained about in their offices and to eliminate financial expenditure that are not necessary. the President also wanted the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and cooperation of East Africa to put itself in order and control all the loopholes for public funds misuse that have been used for external trips and other expenditure that are not necessary. he ordered them to make sure that all workers who are in the embassy offices in various countries without basic reasons are returned in the country in order to reduce the cost load to the Government. "the are workers in our Embassies yet they do not even have the merit to be in the positions they are holding, it reached a point when someone spoils here at home he is fixed in an ambassadorial. "at times you find that the Tanzanian Embassy in a certain country has a high number of workers more than the needs of that embassy, it is impossible," he stressed. however, he congratulated all Tanzania Ambassadors for the the work that they are doing in the countries they are representing and assured them that the Government has hope in them and it depends on them that they will continue representing and branding Tanzania well. that meeting was also attended by various leaders including ministers, assistant ministers, permanent secretaries, assistant permanent secretaries, heads of defense and security dockets, leaders of various institutions and directors in the ministry of foreign affairs and East Africa corporation.
T53 the DC orders that the elderly be given identity cards. written by Veronica Mheta, Arusha. published: 01 November 2016. the Arusha district commissioner, Gabriel Daqarro, has ordered the Arusha City Council social welfare officer to ensure that all elderly people in that town are given identity cards before the end of this year so that they can get services including treatment. Daqqaro gave that command yesterday in the meeting of elders of that village, which was having the aim of listening the insult of elders so as to be given opening also to be establish. he insisted to that department, to ensure the identity cards are received before end of month, as well as urging the government workers, public organizations and various government institutions in that town, to ensure that they give priority to the elderly who have not been getting their services in time. he has also requested local chairmen, ward councilors and parties to cooperate with the police force to ensure they strengthen their security in their areas to enable the elderly to live safely without harassment and to ensure that they manage their values. "you have been given positions to strengthen protection, use them so that the elderly will not be harassed, recognize that old people are important they are the ones who has made us to be here, now I don't want hear complaints of the collapse of ethics," said Daqarro. earlier on, the Arusha town social welfare officer, Shija Numbu said the council has prepared 400 identity cards for the elderly and another 2,094 are with the vendor, although the aim is to produce 1,000 identity cards. regarding the pension, he said the ministry is addressing the issue because it's legal and once it's complete they'll be notified so that they benefit from that pension which is their right. on the side of non-governmental organizations that are serving the elderly in Arusha City, they have requested the parliament to formulate laws for the elderly so as to enable existing good policy to be implemented. giving their contributions in that conference, the elders have claimed that financial institutions and the city council are not ready to lend the elderly for fear of dying soon and want the idea to be eliminated because aging is not dying. on their part, the elders have asked to be involved in decision-making processes from the local to council level so they can have their representatives presenting their problems at the government and council's decision-making sessions. they should also be represented in parliament as the other groups of the disabled, youth and women. they have complained of missing identity tags that have been constraints of urgent access to services in various government institutions including medication at government hospitals, they have also complained of the abusive language offered by some of the workers of the hospitals and health centers.
T299 childhood
T298 Nyerere, we are just as you left us October 13, 2016 by Abdul Mkeyenge two days from today, the father of the nation, Julius Kambarage Nyerere, will reach 17 years since he died on October 14, 1999. the year 1999, I was very young. I was a primary school pupil studying in class two. these are so many years, not as few as you think. the measure of the amount of this years is a record of soccer player Cesc Fabregas, who was very young in Arsenal and was given a chance to be the youngest player who has ever played in that team. Fabregas and his jersey number 15, was given an opportunity to face men while he was only 16. how can 17 years of the death of Mwalimu Nyerere be less? 17 years of that death has come like a joke and our games have continued to remain as they were during the time of the life of the father of the nation and apparently no one cares or is bothered. it's not football that shows to have many stakeholders, but all of our sports generally has lacked excitement. it's not the government that cares, not sports leaders who have lacked creativity, neither is it the fans who can encourage each other in the respective sports. briefly, our sports are in ICU breathing through a machine. since early in the year 1990, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, when he said our sports are the head of an insane person, there is no intentional efforts that have been made so that this statement does not stay alive, but lacking plans, this statement shall keep living until when we shall know where we were stuck. our sports have a lot of plans which are on paper, but the truth of the matter is we have a long journey to get to where our fellows are. third world countries just like Tanzania have spent 10 years or less to build their sports and after that period the country enjoys the fruits of investing in sports, but we are not this way and we don't show signs of getting from being like this. our sports have endless disputes, when one sport's dispute ends, another dispute for another sport starts. when you are in such a region it is difficult as a nation to succeed in whatever you are planning together. if there will be success then it will be for an individual as it is for Mbwana Samatta. Samatta has reached wherever he has reached by his own efforts and not a person or a party that helped him battle the whites right now. as a country this is where we are. it's only nationalism and heroism that can make you stay with a person from another nation and start praising our sports, but the real situation is useless and a result of the poor sports policy that we have. before my grandfather and the former popular RTD anchor Mshindo Mkeyenge, followed wherever his companion Nyerere is, last year he was a journalist who was experienced in presenting and writing like me. in Mkenyenge's presentation, he mostly announced the success of sports in Tanzania. today you could hear him announce of Filbert Bayi, who performed well in athletics in the year 1974, tomorrow you could hear him announcing Peter Tino scoring a goal to move stars to play (AFCON) African nations, but for me life is not this way. I use most of the time to inform people of disputes in sports. since 1999 to 2016, we were supposed to be far in all the sports, but instead we keep sinking as a result of the problems we caused ourselves and we don't have anyone to blame, let us blame ourselves. Cape Verde, Kenya and Uganda are close examples from those nations having succeeded in their various sports recently. Cape Verde is a country that succeeded in football, whereas we once saw their struggles in building themselves and there is a time we scored them when we met. but right now when you mention Cape Verde know you are mentioning a country with an assurance of qualifying AFCON tournament without worry. Kenya is another country that once brought their athletics teacher to come in this country to be taught that sport, but today when you talk about athletics in East African zone you are talking about Kenya. also Uganda's national football team will among the nations that will participate in AFCON tournament during the year. how comes nations that were once behind us today are more than 50 steps ahead of us while we raise endless disputes? the year 2016 is supposed to be the right time to put aside the disputes we have and to reflect generally on our sports so that we come with a right answer and our beginning of success to start from there. it is a must as a nation to ask ourselves where have we stuck so that it becomes easy to get ourselves out, but if we continue as we are for several years, we shall come to meet again on this page as we celebrate the death of Nyerere and our sports to keep staying in this same chapter.
T529 the way of disengaging the Warioba draft May 15, 2014 for time now those who want good for this country if I borrow the words of English poet WB Yeats, "they spread dream" theirs and laid them down under the footprint of a special constitutional parliament. they were hoping that that parliament will respect those dreams because they are their dreams themselves the citizens. but again it came this giant called CCM and stepped on and crushed those dreams. again with a big arrogance. as the days move forward it continues to be clear that the party of revolution (CCM) truly turned up to do all it can in order to stop the recommendations of the commission of constitutional review that to be union of three governments. for this party has no jokes and there are signs that it is ready to use force to fulfill its goal. but it does not care whether its actions may cause blood to drip. or messing up of peace of the country. maybe this is what its enthusiasts want. it is why one of the honorable people of CCM dared to say that only if the recommendation of three governments is accepted he will enter the forest. since the constitutional commission released its second draft of constitutional recommendations, the CCM was alert, arranging and disarranging waiting the appropriate time and place to kill and bury that draft. it decided that the appropriate place is inside the constitutional parliament at the time of its debating. that parliament met in Dodoma for 67 days and after all those days of discussions, wrangles and accusations nothing important was found. for sure what came out is to stop the whole process that continued for three years of trying to compose the new constitution of the united republic of Tanzania. Zanzibaris had great expectations that the government of the united republic and the government of Zanzibar and more those two presidents will lead the process of bringing the new constitution with success. many expecting that the new constitution will be found before the October 2015 general elections. after witnessing what happened in Dodoma now there is a big doubt if the new constitution that the citizens want will be found in that period of time. reason is the stubbornness of CCM for holding that the constitutional parliament must accept manifesto of that party concerning constitutional matters instead of passing the proposed draft by the constitutional commission of the retired judge Joseph Warioba. the CCM has been using its many members in the committees of the constitutional parliament to force what it wants. it has done so instead of letting the representatives from Zanzibar and Tanganyika to defend the interests of their countries and they sit together to write a new constitution that will take to the citizens to vote for. the result of that is that the constitutional parliament was not free like it is supposed to be. even so there are important issues that were discussed especially concerning the legitimacy of the union which Zanzibar was not authorized formally. and where the issue of the certificate of the union emerged. some of the the members of the constitutional parliament held on to want see that certificate signed in April 1964 by the President of the republic of Tanganyika Mwalimu Julius Nyerere together with the President of the people republic of Zanzibar Sheikh Abeid Amani Karume. that certificate when it was removed after several days passing some of the members of parliament placed doubt on it alleging that it was not valid, it was fabricated and there are those who doubted the signature of Sheikh Karume for it is fake. for a period of 67 days of constitutional parliament activities we have been hearing unkind language that are not worthy to be heard in a forum like that.
T528 Chadema blamed for using the earthquake politically it has been written by our writer, Bukoba printed: 19th September 2016 union of the youth of the party of the revolution (UVCCM), Kagera Province have complained over the action done by the leaders of the party of democracy and development (Chadema) of using the disaster of the earthquake here in the town to do politics and misleading propaganda. also, that union has asked and advised the government to leave the work of analysis, distribution of all aid to the affected to be done by Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF). the UVCCM acting Secretary General, Shaka Hamdu, explained that issue to the Kagera Provincial Commissioner, Salum Kijuu when he visited him in his office. he told him that what Chadema is doing is a disgraceful and unusual event. he said some leaders from the party, are using that earthquake to try and build themselves politically while discriminating members of CCM on political ideologies. he said that the verification and initial issuance of aid were done when there was discrimination and favoritism while some of the aid shipment and construction material were written "you got together".
T295 to you (()) my brother welcome Ulisha Francis . thank you broadcaster . from these details we are saying that a witch should be found if one team between Yanga and Simba is defeated . we must first look at the meaning of a witch . when we look at the meaning of witchcraft we find that witchcraft is that state of a person or people to believe in superstitions . but here when we look at these teams we're looking for big causes which gets one team defeated . therefore what I can say is that the witchcraft is being sought to especially look at just two reasons . let me start with the first reason . the first reason is the size of these teams the size of the Simba and Yanga teams . historically we have two teams here in Tanzania Simba and Yanga which are the very big teams . so now the size of these teams cause one team to continue being viewed as bigger than the other . so when one is defeated they start coming up with clues on why it was defeated just to satisfy the fans but they can't accept that they were already defeated . therefore they start witch hunt to look into the failures of these teams . they start looking for a coach maybe that's why they are looking at the striker who -- caught by the magic who are being targeted by my defense fans are being targeted by magic goalkeeper you are starting to be searched for this team that will be defeated . therefore from the size of these teams if one comes to drop after being on top they will start looking for excuses . and the biggest intent is to just satisfy the fans that they lost because certain reasons so that people can continue believing that their team is better but they don't like accepting the weakness . but the second reason on why these teams witch hunt is to just build their trust with fans . can the dear broadcaster and other sports stakeholders agree that supporters -- supporters are the biggest crown to a team ? now a supporter is like a child . when there comes a time when his team is defeated he can change mind -- he can change suddenly and move from one team to another and another one can be so hurt to the level of death . we have witnessed people fainting on the pitches because of their teams losing . so now in order to protect supporters from moving and to protect -- to manage the hurting of supporters into a normal state the leaders and the whole technical bench must start giving basic reasons that they lost because of certain reasons . the intent is to cling onto those supporters so that they can continue supporting that team . thank you dear broadcaster . thank you so much (()) .
T294 be great . he said our capacity is limited . we do not have sponsors . we commit ourselves with our money which we -- we individually have as leaders . we help these children . demand is high . many children need help . how do we do now ? let -- let us make a team of experts lead by a projector manager . I did research in collaboration with local government officials of Morogoro municipal school -- for different schools . of the municipal of Morogoro where the Morogoro municipality has approximately twenty-three community schools . our research was based on approximately ten municipal schools of Morogoro . <no-speech> we have found in one school there are approximately fifty children who are doing well in class . example of a Secondary school (()) located within (()) the municipality of Morogoro . approximately fifty people are doing well but they do not have capacity they do not have capacity that way . they do not have capacity . there are children whose parents passed away . there are children whose parents have separated . there are children who don't have a father there is only the mother . there are children who have special needs such as Abdul . they need help and we said what do we do ? and these are -- are community schools they do not have the capacity to pay for them . we said for this unity let us do -- do something and go to the municipal council of Morogoro . then the municipal council of Morogoro told us (()) well work properly and register our institution . therefore based on the support that we have received from the municipal of Morogoro we are very grateful to the education officer of the municipality of Morogoro . development officer of the municipality of Morogoro . the head office of Morogoro province . office of the member of parliament for Morogoro province Honorable Abudi . we do not have sufficient cooperation and until the month -- the twelfth month at the end of the month when our institution will be officially registered then we can legalize this work in collaboration with various stakeholders of -- of -- of here here in Tanzania . (()) see how we can help these children then (()) we have developed this project that is known help me campaign five hundred is enough to pay debt . but if we go far beyond this is a great project that touches Tanzanians particularly the girl child by one word or the other . we said no . there are many Tanzanians who have done well (()) girl child . who should be an ambassador for this campaign ? in order to -- to encourage communities to do well they can be encouraged and contribute to this campaign help me five hundred is enough to pay (()) . we -- we observed prayer after an extensive research we eventually found Wastara Juma Issa Sajuki a film artist -- here in Tanzania who has great respect within and outside Tanzania . by good luck Wastara by his own mouth he broke down in tears and said it was his long time dream to help girl children . we have met people who have the same dream I am ready with all my might and to -- to the best of abilities to help convince Tanzanians so that we can help the girl child . so as I speak here today Wastara was supposed to be here but due to some emergencies unfortunately he has failed to make it here but he is the official ambassador to help me I have five hundred the campaign is enough to give me a link . let us end it here at this point . we shall return later and continue with our discussion . I can see Grace Kingalame is ready to bring us sports news and entertainment . welcome Grace . thank you Mwasu Sware . welcome I inform you of what transpired in the various sports and entertainment fields . Temeke women team has emerged champions of the women's cup the cup that was concluded yesterday at the Chamazi stadium in the city of Dar es Salaam with Temeke team scoring against Coast one goal to nil . Minister for Information Youth Culture and Sports Doctor Finela Mkangara and the President of T_F_F Jamal Malinzi discussing women's football in the country . <no-speech> if you are asked to pick a team here now you can find it ? he said I cannot even select the team since almost all of them are good . in fact the game was very good . quite obvious that getting new talent is not strained which means for Twiga Stars I thank God -- approximately how many players in that tournament can you get ? I cannot discuss technical questions . or I do not like to answer technical questions but I strongly believe and through speaking to coaches many youths have been found who are adequate enough to strengthen Twiga Stars . that was the biggest . <no-speech> in that game the only goal was scored by Grace Paulo in the second half . Temeke team coach David Sianga Coast players have talked about their game . <no-speech> and I think if you absolutely look I had the right to take the champion because if you look at my record since I started this tournament I have not even been scored one goal . I have won all the matches and I have not been scored even a single goal at my goal post . (()) is a team that you yourself will reward . I have a right -- I have a right and I am ready to take the championship . as of now we are on top but we ask only for support it is still down then we ask them to support as well as encourage us to go further still because at the moment there are very many talents for girls' football in Tanzania . I see it right . I am fine and we are fine because in the final there (()) one winner must emerge . do you think Temeke -- have excelled you -- have surpassed you in what ? <no-speech> out there in our joints (()) that is we did not have the joints . (()) . <misc> <misc> <misc> <no-speech> in that game Temeke besides taking the trophy has received three million shillings together with other five hundred thousand shillings that minister Mukangala added for champions while Coast that finished second got two million shillings and Ilara which got a three goals victory against Kigoma got one million shillings . <no-speech> premier league .
T297 the boxing federation in the country B_F_T through its secretary Makonde Mashaga and the member of parliament Kinondoni province Idd Azan have requested various sports stakeholders in the country to help the national boxing team that is preparing for a friendly match against Zambia . the statement has come when the team is facing a huge obstacle in preparing for the competition and the member of parliament has helped that federation get equipment worth two million shillings . <no-speech> we are calling upon Tanzanians who have sincere intentions and have passion for the Tanzania team to get medals . if someone has ability they should be able to come and contribute or to come and contribute entry fee at the gate . the point of helping our youth and to prepare our team -- early this preparation period . eh let us try to look at other sports . you know most of us direct energy to -- to football . it is fine . eh but we also have these other games which honestly need just a little help so that they -- move forward . friendly matches between Tanzania and Zambia for the boxers will be played on the third of November .
T296 <no-speech> so that at least God can also open the ways for me they should also continue praying for me . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm -- mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> then again now and anyway . how are you progressing politically at your place ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh we're just praying God on politics -- God should give us a deserving leader we don't want tribal matters that someone will get and another one won't anyone who will be justly elected should just be given and people should live in peace there shouldn't be chaos like in the past years . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> mm like now on the side of %incomplete there was a team there were problems and -- there were chaos which didn't satisfy everyone . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> to be honest people died and when I personally consider that picture it is not good . mmhm ? totally true I do support you on that my sister -- we should pray to get a leader from God . mm %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm a leader %incomplete I support you on that . mm even though people are creating alliances like Jubilee and others today but the one thing we're praying to God is for us to get a deserving leader %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech>
T291 Cuba praised for training doctors written by Khatib Suleiman, Zanzibar published: 05 October 2016 the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (SMZ) has said that it is satisfied by the efforts being taken by the Cuban government in strengthening the health sector by training patriot doctors up to the point of providing treatment to the citizens. this was said by the second Vice President, Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, while speaking to his host the Vice President of Cuba, Salvador Mesa in his office in Vuga town, Unguja the day before. Ambassador Iddi said that already the second batch of patriot doctors who had received advanced training on medical profession through the support of the Cuban government had started working and therefore greatly assisted in dealing with the problem of shortage of doctors. "the contribution of the Cuban government in the health sector is great, first in training patriot doctors and second in bringing in doctors to help in the treatment of citizens of Zanzibar," he explained and requested the Cuban government to help in investment in the sector of the area of deep sea fishing. the Cuban vice president called on Zanzibar and Cuba to form a team from both sides, that would work on using the deep sea area in promoting economic output. Cuba was among the countries that supported the Zanzibar Revolution in the year 1964 while helping to provide assistance including provision of high level military training to the first Zanzibari youth who had formed the Zanzibar Liberation Army.
T290 website for kidney disease news launched in the country written by our writer published: 19 September 2016 health stake holders in the country including TMJ have launched the first website for kidney ailment news that is used in the Swahili language. in the website launched yesterday in Dar es Salaam sponsored by TMJ, important information on preventing and treating kidney problems that are on rise in Africa including Tanzania are available in that national language and gives directions to patients on how to live safely. launching the book, assistant health minister, social development, gender, the elderly and children, Doctor Hamis Kigwagwalla said, "availability of the kidney book and Swahili website, talked about by many people is a great step in prevention and treatment of kidney infections. TMJ hospital and a team of Doctors have done a great job for the sake of this project for preparing the Swahili kidney book and a website for kidney patients." he said that a Swahili book and a website about kidney infection will benefit millions of kidney patients and approximately 100 million Swahili users in fighting kidney infection. Kigwangala said that the book aims at providing basic information to patients and their families about all the kidney problems. the acting director of TMJ, Doctor Tayabal Jafferjie said the launch of the website will enable Tanzanians to get various information about the infection. Concerning the book, Doctor Jafferjie said it has 230 pages and it will help kidney patients and other people to get informed of their kidney health and to remove controversy about all kidney problems. Doctor Jafferjie said to all in need of the book can access and go through free of charge from www.kidneyinswahili.com. on his side, Doctor Gabriel Upundu, retired public Chief Doctor said, "availability of the book and the website will increase a wider understanding for the Tanzanian society, thus helping many people in protecting themselves against kidney infections and related infections. the kidney book and website were first written in English by Doctor Sanjay Pandya from India while the book and the website in Swahili were prepared by Doctor Upanda.
T293 Hilal Hemed Hilal: the fastest Tanzanian swimmer November 07, 2013 when I was filling the incoming visitor's book in IST Masaki national school, my mind was on the guy who holds a record of swimming the fastest in this country. he is called Hilal Hemed Hilal and his record is 24 seconds swimming across a 50 meters pool. last week he broke the record by bringing Tanzania 15 medals when he participated in a clubs tournament in Kenya that was held in the city of Mombasa. the competition involved all swimming clubs in Kenya. there were 30 Tanzanians from different clubs and formed a team they called Tanzania swimming squad. from the 15 medals he swept, 5 are gold, seven are silver and three are bronze. as if that is not enough, he held the second position on the men's side the first position going to Torg Pragassa from Kenya. "I started swimming when I was very young, at the time swimming was compulsory in the nursery school I went to. later when I started form one at Aga Khan the year 2009 is when I realized I am talented in swimming. "teacher Amina Mfaume, is the one who discovered my talent and advised me to join Taliss (Tanzania Life Swimming Society) swimming club. it was early 2010, when I participated in the first competition in Nairobi for third and fourth zone but I did not get any medal because I only went to gain experience. "I later went to India in the Commonwealth competition, I swam 100 and 50 meters. similarly I did not get anything. in the same year, 2010 I went to Dubai for the world competition, but I also did not get anything." therefore, Hilal did not get anything in all the competitions he participated in in 2010. however, they helped him add his skills and be more confident. sometimes competing does not only mean winning. "when I started swimming I was using 29 seconds to complete 50 meters in all styles. but every time I got into a new competition I added my ability, when I participated in the Indian competition I was using 27 seconds and when I went to Dubai I was using 26 seconds. "remember in swimming 50 meters in 26 seconds, very few people can get to this level. but I saw it was not enough, I kept training and until now I complete 50 meters in 24 seconds which in Tanzania and some African countries no one reaches this level," explains Hilal confidently. in the year 2011 he participated in regional competitions in Uganda and Zambia, at different periods. in that year is when he started to show his fierceness of collecting medals where he won himself 20 medals the whole year. six gold, 10 silver and seven bronze. however, in the year 2012 Hilal was required to participate in Olympics games that were held in London but his name was struck the last minutes. Raia Mwema talked to the national swimming team coach who is also Hilal's coach, Alex Mwaipasi and he said that he too does not know why his boy's name was struck. for now it is not only Tanzania but East Africa, when you mention a clever and fast swimmer then it's Hilal Hilal's name that comes to mind, but we are surprised the national swimming association removed his name at the last minute from the list of people who were supposed to represent the country in the Olympics. up to now that issue affects my boy psychologically, Tanzania has opportunists in this swimming associations," said Alex appearing so touched by the act. moreover, currently Hilal holds the record for all styles in swimming in the country, (freestyle, butterfly and Backstroke) in a 50 meters distance. "every year Tanzania has club swimming competitions, we call Tanzania open championships since 2012 up to this year, I have been the first in all styles, therefore no one has broken my record till now," he said. in the past two years, the youth has participated in Istanbul competitions in Turkey but he did not get anything, he also went to Barcelona in Spain and he also did not get anything. when he explained the reason for Tanzanian swimmers performing poorly in international competitions, Hilal said it is poor preparations and the government not cooperating with simmers. the youth who was born in July 1994 has completed his fourth form last year at Aga Khan and he has dreams of joining any University in the world to study Bachelor of Arts in Sports Management.
T292 Diamond, Ali Kiba witchcraft reigns, charms picked in a field one found breathing the situation keeps worsening for two Bongo Fleva music stars contesting to be music stars, Nasibu Abdul 'Diamond Platinumz' and Ali Saleh Kiba, this time round there are new things emerging with each artist fearing to hold the other's hand because of superstitious beliefs. let's unite leaders this shocking acts inflicted a lot of fear in the fans and sponsors of music in Bongo a short while before the stars being welcomed to the stage in the Leaders Club Gardens, in Kinondoni Dar City at the end of last week. charms found in the field according to our reporter, in the Leaders Gardens, Kinondoni, some charms were found spread which were claimed to have been dropped by some youth caught dressed in uniforms with the two stars' names. in a surprising state, one of the fans who attended the show who saw the charms surprised fellow fans when he claimed that he saw one moving as though it was breathing! "look people, this charm is breathing, look at it keenly," the fan was heard and left people in a shocked state to see such superstitious acts in areas of entertainment. as the actions of finding the charms proceeded, Diamond after getting on stage before starting to sing found himself sliding and falling on stage and stood by himself while the youth who are claimed to be Team Kiba made a loud noise to symbolize that they were happy about the incident happening. together with Diamond's falling to the floor, the situation continued worsening for him after a poor projection of the music, an act that aroused feelings that there was superstition going on to degrade him musically by showing that he had performed poorly in the show. bottles are thrown after seeing the situation worsening as water bottles were thrown on the stage with some of them hitting him and evading others while going on with the show, Diamond decided to get clever to calm the noise by pouring notes. the issue made the fans and Team Kiba to stop the exercise and start scrambling for the two thousand shilling notes that he poured in three phases. offertory? as he kept throwing the notes to the fans, Diamond was heard saying that the money was special for it was offertory to them for the great support though he will not be able to give each one of them. Diamond like Michael Jackson however some of the fans who were scrambling and picking the notes were heard saying: "Michael Jackson used to do such (the late American artist) and he was using superstition and Freemasons. "Michael was claimed to pour money that had power to mute all whose rose to to shout against him," one fan was heard saying. surprise in a most surprising way, Diamond removed his t-shirt and vest, wiped his sweat and threw it to his fans knowing very well that he had wiped sweat that was flowing from his body like water. Kiba was not supposed to talk? while Diamond's surprising acts proceeded as well as dirty water bottles with urine being thrown at him, it was claimed that when Kiba entered the artists room he did not want to talk to anyone while it was claimed that it was a major sign that he was not required to talk to anyone for he could lose his power to perform at the show. police in a burden while the fans were still in fear about this artists, a police force armed with all paraphernalia to arrest criminals started an operation of arresting youth claimed to be Team Kiba who were rowdy and throwing water bottles containing urine and water who received a thorough beating. Kiba jumps over a wall initially before the start of the show superstitious acts were evident more after Ali Kiba entered in the field by jumping over a wall and even after he showed himself up in a special room set aside for artists he did not hold hands with his colleagues. the artists Ali Kiba ignored are AY, Mwana FA, Shaa, Shilole, Vanessa Mdee and Jux, whom he all found in the room.
T422 deputy mayor
T208 my name is Doto it's all right I'm a resident of Kigamboni but I'm really fond of coming here to eat in this Chef Pride Hotel . since it is a hotel that prepares modern dishes it prepares delicious Tanzanian dishes that is affordable it is a delicacy eaten by everyone that anyone with the ability and he who doesn't have the ability gets good food at Chef Pride Hotels . my name is Brother Kitangala and I'm a resident of Dar es Salaam . <no-speech> for any hotel it's all about the cooking . <no-speech> if you hear about a hotel it's their cooking . <no-speech> now a restaurant like this or you think I'm not getting its name right . a chef is not a chef if . most of the time they have managed to preserve the taste of the food . <no-speech> the taste of their food does not change . <no-speech> the food you ate today if you eat it tomorrow the taste is the same . <no-speech> it is different from other restaurants that you can eat food and find it tasting differently and tomorrow you eat the food and its taste is otherwise . but the second likewise is the hygiene of the food itself . <no-speech> hence as you currently know there are various disease outbreaks . <no-speech> when preparing food for your clients the food should be clean and good . <no-speech> you guarantee safety in their stomachs so that they don't get food that they later spend a lot on treatment . the issue is not about the price the issue is someone's health . people are currently cautious of health . to eat quality food not to contact contagious diseases . my name is Kenneth Hindi . <no-speech> I'm a Tanzanian . <no-speech> and is a business person . <no-speech> (()) -- people like eating during the day . <no-speech> now with the experience I have in many instances the food stays over night . <no-speech> here their food is fresh and they have all the varieties . vegetables are available then -- their services and prices are reasonable compared to other places where you pay a lot of cash then the food is not -- not (()) there is everything here . if you want -- if you want vegetables if you want stew here for instance today I have eaten stew without many ingredients it is -- it is meat that has just been boiled . and those who can eat even at home . and since I began eating here I have never again had any -- stomach problem because they I -- I have ever visited at night up to where they cook the food that remains is disposed of you -- you said (()) I mean it's fresh food (()) is that it is fresh food . you eat food (()) on something meant for masala . my name is Kapara Mes Kapara . <no-speech> I'm the general manager of Chef Prides . we at Chef Prides have over thirty-five years in this food sector . and we take pride in indigenous food . we at Chef Prides cook Swahili dishes entirely Swahili foods . but also a mixture of continental continental to mean Indian from India . from Malaysian foods . we can cook with Italian cuisines . but we Chef Prides our exact root is <foreign> for chefs . <no-speech> see Salim Massen is a chef . general manager Kapara Mes Kapara is a chef here where I am with Chef Fadhili from Zanzibar Complex hotel Zanzibar is chef . it is a collection of chefs together we do Chef Pride so that it leads all day . and our favorite food here is biryani . we are cooking biryani we are cooking pilau . we are preparing a good chapati soft the best in town . Chef pride (()) time remains the same to be the best of the best . I am Ibrahim Koho . it's Chef of Chef pride . I am starting to introduce foods here . if customers cherish them these foods and they access to different parts offices come here to eat food . <no-speech> design much as pilau biryani . they always get and love them so much . how to cook pilau and ingredients you have prepared quite like this . these are our ingredients for cooking pilau and biryani . <no-speech> am eating Chef Pride because their food is tasty good every time I come here I eat biryani because I take pleasure in biryani . <no-speech> today I brought my two friends they have come to eat biryani but this other has come to eat banana . <no-speech> <no-speech> bananas are also good but biryani I think is the first time I tried the banana . the bananas here are very sweet very good yeah . welcome . you also are welcomed . <no-speech>
T209 clouds TV strongly warned written by Lucy Michael published: 04 October 2016 the committee of Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) has issued a strong warning to clouds television for going against the regulations of broadcasting. a statement by TCRA has said also it has closed for three months starting today its program take one, together with being required to evaluate it with the objective of getting a better way of driving it by taking recommendations to TCRA before that program is opened. the deputy chairman of that committee, Joseph Mapunda has said that in the city of Dar es Salaam, when he was giving the decision of that committee concerning complaints of going against the regulations of broadcasting at that television station. August 9, this year that station through its program of Take One that was broadcasted on air between nine o'clock and ten o'clock at night and repeated again on August 10, one o'clock up to two in the afternoon, was accused of spreading content that goes against law and principles of broadcasting. he said the presenter of that program, Zamaradi Mketema did an interview with Gift Stanford popular by the name Gigy Money by asking her questions that aimed at sexual issues and leading her to mention the names of men she had done sex with something that intrudes into the freedom of privacy of people contrary to the regulations of broadcasting services of the year 2005. "furthermore, in that program the presenter didn't issue a warning to viewers especially the youth and children not to involve themselves with that behavior of the interviewee rather it had the direction of motivating sexual acts and really there were no questions that led the interviewee to warn the youth and children not to enter into those acts something that can excite the girls and others to do sex business with an intention of getting money," he said. Mapunda has emphasized regulations of broadcasting services that were gone against are quality together with honor, social morals, to avoid entering into privacy or personal life, not destroying or dirtying people's characters.
T423 teenagers die taking 'selfie' in front of a train in Delhi the ordeal was reported in the local media two teenagers died while they were taking photos on a railway in the Indian capital Delhi. a group of teenagers went to the railway station to take selfie in front of an oncoming train. but two delayed to leave the railway and the train crashed them, the police said. a study last year has shown that many deaths have been attributed to people taking selfies in Indians than any other country. academics from Carnegie Mellon University and Indraprastha Communications Institute in Delhi say that among the 127 deaths of people taking selfie between 2014 and 2015, 76 cases are reported in India. a recent event has been reported after the media in the area reported on Tuesday. "during the photo session, they saw the train coming they moved aside. but another train appeared on the other side and were stranded in the middle. they were hit by one of the trains," the Indian Express quoted a police officer. one railway officer has added that the teenagers hired a professional photographer for the job. "we have found the used camera from the teenagers. it had photos and videos, the video is being scanned, while those pictures prove that they were jumping from one railway to the other," Deputy police commissioner Parwaiz Ahmed told Hindustan Times. last year two students drowned as they were taking selfies in a flooded river in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh. and police in Mumbai have mentioned 15 areas where 'it is dangerous' to take a selfie after an 18-year-old girl drowned in the sea while taking a selfie.
T202 afternoon
T203 Friday, October 31, 2014 fear of successful women and the notion of the family head. I got an opportunity of participating in one debate on Facebook today. the debate itself was commenced by Samuel Sasali, who in my opinion has a significant ability to provoke topics that concern our daily lives. the argument that was on the table was brought in a way that show the difficulties a woman goes through when she succeeds educationally. that as a woman climbs the educational ladder, in like manner men run away from her. who is to blame men or women? there is the truth that in our community, highly educated women have a very difficult time getting lasting relationships, with people they expect again for a time. and even if they get most of us agree that many of those relationships face storms here and there and sometimes those relationships get broken. men claim they fear these women because together with beauty and smartness of brain and body, it is said that they lack the respect required for marriage. when they get education, it's claimed they aren't ready to submit to a man. that's men's major fear that prevents them from starting and maintaining relationships with successful women be it educationally or economically. if you look properly you will see that there is some truth that successful women sometimes fail to submit to a man. when they succeed, they begin to feel that, they have a right to be equal to men in all areas of life. this state isn't accepted by many men who need to see themselves as the real head of the family by being listened to, accepted and given respect even if they don't fulfill his responsibility. these are the facts translated by men to mean humility. even so, this opinion has many problems. for example, it's not every time successful women are the problem. there are women who have no success but still threaten men. yes, these sometimes are just feelings that if believed turn out to be true. and if you truly investigate carefully a lot of relationship misunderstandings, you'll discover that the main problem is self-mistrust that men have and not how they are. it is true that many men have problems relating to themselves a condition we can call poverty of self, that makes them unable to relate with women unconditionally and at times burden women unfairly. one example they have is this we are talking about of being threatened by the success of women. it is this fear of a woman's success that makes many men seek for relationships with uneducated women and who are dependent so that they can rule and control them. they use the notion of the family head contrary to reality. I beg now to show shortly how it is that the problem can't be a woman's success, rather it is a man's weakness that makes them afraid of women's success. head of the family let's start with the notion of the family head that men love so much. being the head of the family doesn't mean brutality or dictatorship or the ability to control a woman rather it's the ability to be an example of the things that are supposed to happen in the family, the ability to show the way and establish the perfect environment for family members to communicate well with themselves and in that manner relate well among themselves. by being recognized as the family head, it's the man who is supposed to be the first person to have good self relations himself. he is not supposed to be a person who has troubled relations with self and is struggling to seek the peace that comes from outside. that is the same as saying a man who doesn't trust himself or others, a man worried with his own self, a man seeking happiness at the cost of others, will end up starting relationships as an effort to hide his flaws by wrongly using the notion of being the head of the family. usually, this type of man thinks that being the head of the family means having more money, more education, more intellect, being older et cetera so that he can use all of them as arms against a woman's threat. now someone is asking themselves, how is it that a man who is the head of the family uses education, money, status, experience and all manner of tactics to control a woman. is this not weakness? down here I'll try we examine five attributes of a man with a poor relationship with his space, attributes that make him unable to be ready to pay the cost of being the real head of the family and therefore find himself running away from women who are self-aware. 1) he doesn't like to be corrected but he is a good corrector a man of this kind knows he has a certain weakness which he doesn't like others to know. because of that he doesn't like to be corrected because the language of correcting him sends a message that emphasizes castration feelings of self which he already has. his comfort is seeing others corrected and for that, he supports digging in and making others feel bad. he can't feel good in praising others. he is threatened by the happiness of others. even so, we aren't saying that someone won't sit he corrects. but when it becomes a character, that you must correct everyone when you don't have a solution, we ourselves ask about the health of your soul. 2) he is threatened by the success of others, competes without any reason. he doesn't like to see others become greater than him. he is someone who clashes with people he believes are threatening his honor. at times he competes even in small things that you never imagined need competition. the objective is to boast that even he is able. it is true, a human being by nature is a competitor but not to the level of building a wall against people who genuinely are not a threat and at times don't have anything to do with you. 3) if the talker/open person succeeds, if the secretive person isn't successful. these are the kinds of men who when you are with them, it's like they want you to be a listener to their boasting. this type of man lives a life of talking/saying. and most of what he says concern himself, "I was, I am, I will, I won't". it's true we love success but not to the level of desiring to get a television program to say how successful we are. even so, it's not every time a man of means is open. when things go in an unexpected way, he becomes secretive. and sometimes he uses lies in order to hide the disgrace of being seen as having not reached where he wants or pretends he was brought down by others. 4) he doesn't accept his mistakes, he's vengeful to people who wronged him. if you have a male friend who when he's in the wrong isn't quick to accept mistakes, and again at times you're forced to confess things you know very well aren't your mistakes then that's the man we're talking about here. when you make a mistake, he's quick to blame and to recall past mistakes. these are the people who can sulk for a whole week like an effort to avoid taking responsibility and accepting the truth. are vengeful and sometimes they have grudges with people. 5) he has a romantic jealousy, he is scornful self-mistrust makes him a suspicious person who feels the presence of a third person who is spying on his relationship even when he himself isn't faithful. it's the opinion of self-mistrust that makes him quick in distrusting a person. and sometimes he gets into love relations with many people to look for fake comfort. now in order to deal with his self-mistrust, sometimes he is someone who likes to identify with people whose status he seeks himself. famous people. you can find that out if you are near him because he doesn't hesitate to ridicule people he feels have no status like the one he seeks. costs of relating with this man I haven't gone through all explanations with the objective of shortening the article. in short, this state of mistrust which comes from the bad relationships with his soul, are usually the results of upbringing and life experiences which build perspectives, trust, and behavior that doesn't emphasize true relations with the soul. to satisfy this kind of a man, who is struggling to relate with his own soul can't be an easy job. and in truth, a woman who lives with this person has a big role of paying the cost of making him feel good in many ways. firstly, the woman will be obliged not to have better credentials than her husband. she shouldn't be educated, shouldn't have money, shouldn't be famous, she shouldn't have a job that's better than her husband's et cetera. it's like we saw that this man interprets, other people's success as being his own failure this together with people close to him. and this is the reason many end up in relationships with women whose success doesn't surpass theirs. that's why you can be surprised a person has a PhD, has met how many women who aren't deserving in his journey of education so much so that he ends up marrying an illiterate woman. another, if you'll be better than him, understand you'll be compelled to ensure that it isn't seen. you'll be required to put in the effort that makes him recognize that he's successful, knowledgeable, he is able all the days constantly. in another language don't be restless or show that you have certain skills in you. this isn't an easy job and it demands the cost of self-denial and your status because we know, human beings rejoice in success. this is to say, it will require you as "a real" woman to avoid an environment of correcting him. even when you feel he's making a mistake, you'll be forced to let him continue with his mistake even when you know it will affect both of you. the objective is to remove the likelihood of making him feel despised. if you must advise, then let the language make him feel those are his views and they have been built on his mind. at the same time, his feelings of envy will force you to give him an opportunity of understanding you well so that he can trust you and reduce the worry of being cheated or dumped. here we aren't saying a man who trusts himself doesn't need openness in his wife's life, but this openness goes beyond limits so much so that if he was able, he yearns to follow you using a CCTV in order to know where you are and what you're doing and with whom and what minute. and because we have seen that he is someone to whom forgiveness is heavy and is a vengeful person, that means as "a real woman" you'll have to take responsibility of carrying the cross of blame whenever there are relationship differences. is it right for a woman to bear the burden? as we saw, this certainly isn't a light burden to a normal woman who enters into a relationship with the expectation of getting fulfillment and the love of her husband. remember, in a relationship, it's the man's responsibility to bear the "burden" of responsibility in order to establish an environment that makes a woman feel like a queen. this is what being the head really means in the leadership of a relationship. nevertheless, in a normal situation, this leadership can't work in an environment where the husband himself who is supposed to bear that burden is the same we are discussing here. before I finish, let me say directly that before you start a relationship with a man with the character we saw here, it would be good to get professional help to help him change first. otherwise, you'll find yourself bearing a burden with the heaviness of a cross. the challenge though is that even when he's advised to see a behavioral professional, he interprets your advice as ridicule and distrust of his ability. that surprises me because, he believes he knows even when he doesn't and any attempt to lead him to the knowledge that he needs, he will interpret as being despised. in conclusion, we can say that a stable man, a man who relates well to his soul, a man who is self-conscious and understands his responsibility, isn't threatened by a woman's stability or success. when he becomes stable, a man is usually able to pay the cost of relating. with any woman without caring about that woman's success. if it is that way there won't be a problem of understanding that the only right weapon for "ruling over" any woman if it's together with the successful one is to love her with diligence and to create for her an environment in which she feels valued more than anything else. it's only very few women who can fight against this weapon. even in that way, that doesn't mean that a woman won't need to pay the cost. no of course not. the woman likewise needs to ensure that she's self-aware, she relates well to her soul and in that way recognize her role in the relationship without caring about success or how she's better than her husband. otherwise, it's true, as she succeeds in like manner she's creating for herself an environment of loneliness. christianbwaya@gmail.com written by Christian Bwaya
T200 <no-speech> what understanding do citizens have about brushing teeth and the annoyance they have been experiencing from some of people not brushing properly and therefore producing foul smells when talking ? <no-speech> there some people who eat sweet things Jojo sweet you see they don't rinse their mouth properly for mouth hygiene . you have seen someone who eats during the day and does not rinse his mouth he returns and he doesn't brush at bed time he eats his dinner and sleeps when he's done . then food piles in the mouth . and the bacteria finds time to work you see eh he sleeps similarly in the morning he does not brush his teeth you see such things contributes to teeth decay . honestly there quickly I can't give them any advice because that is a shameful thing . therefore mostly when you meet such a person you cannot advise him but you will just tolerate the smell you can do -- you will do but you cannot advise him because some people are respectable adults but their mouths smell . to tell them me just telling them will be like you have humiliated -- you have despised them . it is therefore difficult for person to person discussing over that matter . it is supposed to be human as human to brush teeth even three times in a day . because it is not good if when you are with your colleagues then your mouth stinks it is not good . my advice I request that when people wake up in the morning they look at their bodies to be clean and the mouth too the body too is enough but often when you -- you are supposed to take your paste your brush you rinse your mouth you keep your teeth in a more hygienic condition . education should also know about the mouth . <no-speech> I know when you wake up in the morning and brush your teeth when you eat day time and brush your teeth and when you come in the evening and brush your teeth . so that when you are seated with people you don't talk and someone looks on the side . <no-speech> what are the specific reasons that contribute to someone stinking in the mouth ? <no-speech> there are many reasons to that causes one to produce foul smells from the mouth -- you can smell someone producing foul smells when you are talking to him either not know that it is coming from the mouth because we shall be smelling because he is talking it maybe coming from the nose or it may be coming from the mouth . but when we come to our mouth and teeth health that there is that foul smell that comes from the mouth that is caused by gum infections . <no-speech> or there is that foul smell that comes from the mouth that is caused by tooth infections . a tooth is decayed has a cavity stays there and harbors food remains which rot . when such a person talks foul smell must come out . its treatment if he has a decayed tooth and those teeth preserve food remains the treatment is either they might be cleaned and filled or be uprooted . for another reason you can find a tooth decaying and forms a boil that has pus . pus must have a foul smell you see ? another thing is those gum infections . -- such gums have -- have swelled some can form small boils . called periodontal abscess . (()) they are boils that appear on the gums . is therefore those boils will have pus foul smell must come out another thing is someone has brushed his teeth well fine but did not brush the tongue you see ? so what exactly is that other part now which you say comes from within is possible that someone has a problems in his digestive system or has a problem in the lungs or has a problem in -- there are things we call sinuses too therefore that can also be producing foul smell from the mouth therefore such a person what we advice him is to visit a dentist . the dentist will know what causes his problem and every problem is treated the way the dentist has seen . many believe that when a person has a toothache then its cure is to remove it . it is not a must . it is not necessary for everyone with a toothache to remove it because right now there is there is know-how let's say has been there ever since although for Tanzania I think equipment or in this hospitals which most are public I think we understand the economy of -- of our country the way it is you can just find -- someone being removed a tooth because there are no tools there is various know-how for treating the teeth . there are some whose teeth have been affected to an extent of needing to be removed but become afraid of dying during the exercise . I can mostly say it is education because someone can get a toothache . he does not know that the tooth can even cause him to die it aches it is there it can maybe it can cause him a boil and later die . so he stays feeling that if I go to hospital today maybe I will die . you can find another person who for sure goes to hospital but he is at a point where the doctor himself is unable to help . <no-speech> therefore when that gets at the hospital (()) and another thing in us Tanzanians may I should say we have a (()) habit of keeping secrets . someone has another infection he has come to hospital to a dentist the dentist asks which other problem do you have besides this he does not tell you he thinks the dentist only deals with the teeth when you are a dentist and you are also involved with the human health in general . there is also a notion in the society that pregnant women are not allowed to unplug their teeth and when she takes too long with an aching tooth let's say that she can give birth before the right time has come they say premature birth . <no-speech> it is for the same reason that -- she already has infections in the mouth and she's in so much pain they can -- for the period she has -- time has come they have caused they say certain hormones have -- have been released to cause that woman to feel pain and (()) . but a pregnant mother as a pregnant mother can be treated a tooth can be unplugged a tooth any dental treatment can be done to her . young children for a large part %incomplete
T201 young man fined a he goat by elders residents here were left gaping when Jombi was fined a he goat by the council of elders for having an intimate affair with his neighbor's wife. the man was caught relaxing with someone's wife at three o'clock in the afternoon. according to the source, the woman had lied to her husband that she was at the salon having her hair made. rumors say that, instead of going to the salon she sneaked into the young man's room who is their neighbor. "the woman after confirming no one had seen her, entered the young man's room who is their neighbor and they begun their antics," said the source. however, she was not lucky because one woman saw her entering the young man's room and when they locked themselves inside, she looked for the husband and told him what was going on. it is said that when the husband got the news that his wife was sharing the fruit, he decided to sneak up on them. when he knocked on the door several times and it wasn't opened, he decided to break down the door with all his strength and entered inside. "the man did not believe his eyes when he found the mother of his children with the young man half naked trying to get dressed." he screamed and a crowd of people crowded the place. "attempts by the young man to flee through the window failed and he was nabbed," said the source. it is said that some of the residents started beating him up but he was saved by the village elder assisted by head of community policing. an emergency meeting was organized whereby the husband of the woman forgave them but the elders fined the young man a he goat. however, the woman fled in fear of her husband just as soon as the elders session was concluded. up to the time of writing this news, it is not known where she went. the husband refused to take the he goat that the young man had paid as fine, saying that he had already forgiven him and the elders sold it and shared the money. by Cornelius Mutisya
T206 Sungusungu tattooed with charms to make them more courageous written by Peti Siyame, Sumbawanga published: 14 December 2016 as other military improves themselves courageously and with determination in physical training using better equipment, ancient soldiers, famously known as Sungusungu who are male youth almost 83 in number have been forced to get tattooed on the whole body to increase confidence. they were tattooed by traditional doctors so that they became fearsome and also become brave when facing criminals even if criminals are heavily armed. the tattoo ceremony involved Sungusungu from the villages of Mwale and Ng'ong'o which are in lake Rukwa valley in Sumbawanga district, Rukwa where two goats were slaughtered for the purposes of the soldier's feast. they eat together with poor quality grain meal. this newspaper reached the field that was used for the ceremony in that forest and witnessed the youth force of age between 20 and 40 being tattooed all over the body by four traditional doctors hired to do that job. speaking with this newspaper under a condition of not writing there names on the newspaper, some well built youth claimed that they have faith that the traditional medicine have the ability to make them fearsome and more brave. "after we have been tattooed over the whole body then we will be able to identify the criminals before he has committed a crime so we can prevent crime before it is done. in fact we shall be extremely brave, super energized and we shall not be scared to face criminals even if they are heavily armed," insisted one of them. speaking with this newspaper, the commander of the Sungusungu army, Mahona Boniface said the tattooing is a direction from their Sungusungu lord called Clement Mbogatabu which he gave soon after being chosen to take that position in the recent elections. "I am the one who alerted collection of these police and give them the instructions from our Sungusungu lord they all complied and today we are gathered in this field where every police officer has been instructed to carry along his own new razor blade and an amount of 500 shillings as fee to the doctor who will tattoo him," said Mbogatabu. those traditional doctors hired to do that job were mentioned as Juma Aron, Shinje Buzuka and Lutema Mugesa while the name for the fourth doctor was not available. he said that the doctors are from Uzia village and the other one is a resident of Santaukiwa village which are in the valley of river Rukwa in Sunbawanga district where they conducted the activity from nine in the morning to two at noon. they said that after the tattooing, the Sungusungu youth male police have been objected from having sex with any woman even if they are married for a period of three days after passing those days they will be assembled again where they will be washed in medicine then be allowed to have sex.
T207 he had been there following keenly and I already have the director here . yes in our studios and near home he is the one who will be able to yes to tell us much because he's the actual head and the challenges there . director James Biri welcome very much . thank you very much . how is the afternoon ? very well . I'm sorry for the responsibilities . thank you very much because I can see or was the queue long or ? (()) the queue was long . yes . alright . Nyakato that is . there was a little bit of a queue . alright . then director without wasting time I've heard Wilson Elisha yes in his report and the his general preparations but I a bit of feel there are weeds I mean what can be done to them now give us this information . ahh the weeds in further expertise and fortunately we have we have expertise which has come from T_F_F with enough experience in preparing different pitches . it should also be remembered that he is the one who prepared the pitches that were prepared in Mbeya . he has therefore come to advise us and as you've seen there are people who are working there ahh and the biggest job that I am doing is to ensure the fishermen are being removed from inside there so that eventually the grass can remain in isolation to be able to (()) the fertility of that field . there's faith that as the time goes by the weeds will be complete and they will be out of the pitch . director there are many challenges that we've heard of here with water being the first problem yes and together with that the lake is nearby yes I know the people of Hamawasa but there's a very big problem of water so approximately how many field are there up to this time ? people came in January I remember Marcus came to follow up and now Wilson Elisha followed up closely and and for today we are counting nine nine days remaining now director . ahh on the issue of water as you initially asked is that in our province Mwanza especially the areas of Mahima and Nyakato (()) there was a very big problem of water . but we have already talked to the leadership of MOWASA and I can see in the last week they have already laid down very big water pipes and I therefore believe that tomorrow I think on Monday they will be opened officially . therefore I believe that in our areas of our pitches now the issue of (()) will rescue us by fifty percent to one hundred percent . but a little bit in the beginning that was the problem because we were getting water which little pressure wasn't well sufficient in the fields . but now after Muasi leaders have come in the middle and we even talked with the head of (()) district and Muasi director then they gave us that aid and so we should say that those are the pitches which from tomorrow if opened ahh we will have solved the water issue by a very big percentage . mmhm . ahh but as you said the pitches -- the number of pitches as you saw the ongoing competitions there are for the under twelve which can be played in half that is on one field nearing two pitches . a half by half . yes for now we have four pitches but we're depending on another pitch which we're depending on yes anytime from now we have already asked brethren they are there and the expert has arrived and therefore we will -- we are expecting to plant grass from maybe Wednesday or Thursday of this week or next week . but in this whole issue lala the games schedules mm I believe that the way the pitches are for now they meet the requirements of T_F_F mm . therefore I have said as you heard in the beginning ahh I am just waiting for their schedule to be complete and so we will be ready the moment they announce their schedule . yes on our side we're waiting for the whole leadership of T_F_F he shouldn't complete it to completion after the stakeholders' and teams' report -- the teams that are making preparations everywhere in Tanzania should be able to prepare we in Temesi are ready to receive them and to oversee the competitions -- otherwise we're expecting maybe fruits in these competitions -- indeed to receive approximately two hundred sports people or if I'm not wrong about the math those are many and could be twenty-seven . there are many for sure in this country yes they will exceed at that place because -- or close to three hundred . yeah because we're relying on every team as you heard they might have between nineteen players and two leaders so now there's a possibility they might have between twenty-one teams . mm . so if you calculate twenty-one times twenty-nine how many people do you think it can be ? but for those people they are still very little on our side yes we can take eight hundred people up to nine hundred and with five hundred if you still check you will find it open . for that on the side of %incomplete
T204 two thousand and twelfth golf tournament for the day of Rotary has ended at the weekend in Arusha where among other things it was aimed to raise funds amounting to one hundred and twenty million shillings for the availability of clean water for five hundred families that cannot afford hospital as well as school . let us join Jamila Omar for more information . the overall winner in the competition which was organized by the Arusha Rotary Club and sponsored by the company selling cars Heus Motors in Arusha is Richard Gomez who got thirty-nine points followed by Tanzania golf chairman Paul Martin the second winner who got thirty-eight points and for the women the overall winner was Neema Olomu who received thirty-eight points . acting general manager of Heus Motors company Robert Odundo said the goal of sponsoring that tournament was to pay back their customers in helping communities that are unable to access clean water and promised to continue sponsoring those competitions every year . in our work we walk in different places in the country really looking for -- to market our products and while on those walks we have seen other people struggling because of water . <no-speech> and you find a younger child who should be going to school you find him in the afternoon walking in search of water . now we saw we can try -- we can change society if we enable them access water so that those children also may find time to go to school and develop their life . <no-speech> on the side of the chairman of the organizing committee of the Rotary Club of Arusha Zina Daalhas thanked all those who came forward to play in order to contribute to the service . well we hope they are going to be sustainable the only thing is you never know what will happen in the future . the water process will not be as sustainable as it will be like twenty years to come they will have to be replaced after five years . that is why we are also looking at doing bore holes but the immediate effect is to help out households who do not have fresh water . that is what we are looking at at the moment . I am very happy to see so many people have come here in Arusha to play golf at Gymkhana Club . because of helping people who do not have . and I have been comforted so much to see that golf players are also able to -- to help the poor not to think that only rich can play golf . even those who are helpless we can help them ourselves by the game of golf . so I would like all other games to do things like this . more than eighty players and one from Kenya T_P_C Moshi golf team one Tanzanian and various players of golf in that city have participated . from Arusha your sportsperson Jamila Omar .
T205 <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> tell me . <no-speech> fine . <no-speech> <no-speech> so now you're boasting about picking your phone what do you want ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> what do you want now that you're boasting about picking up calls ? by making yourself a cow who will milk you ? be humble -- be humble -- be humble -- haven't I picked up ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> then tell me I have humbled myself . <no-speech> mm okay now this (()) should I marry or what questions are these for ? mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> you can marry if you want haven't you found data or what ? <no-speech> you know there are some areas you're not supposed to be explicit continue with questions . we can also help you in the search . <no-speech> there are no questions I want us to chat . really . <no-speech> <no-speech> I can't S_M_S you never reply . so now that you have told me that -- %incomplete <no-speech> when you told me of questions I went and took a book and read it mm and became baked . mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> and now I'm baked then you're telling me there's nothing else do you know you can't hurt me like that ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you really like dreaming about me you have even dreamed of me telling you of hard questions and it's only daytime if the night comes what will -- ? <no-speech> mm my friend you -- fine fine -- you know we had -- (()) but now you mm it's not insulting but you know you being heard of is hard . <no-speech> <no-speech> tell me how have you been though ? <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> getting hold of me isn't hard . and then funny enough you call me -- you -- you usually call me %incomplete <no-speech> at a time that I'm usually busy . so now I don't know how does it usually go ? <no-speech> you know you have two problems if you are not busy then you've been held and tasted something . mm . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> Dorcas I can't cheat now do this Dorcas or Chicitita I don't even know now what (()) -- I don't know which name should I call you ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> I think Chicitita is the good one . mm . <no-speech> mm ? you know what Chicitita we had a deal . <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm now the deal was if you get to Nairobi %incomplete then you tell me to bring you some things I give you some things you know I am alone in K_M then a person from %incomplete mmhm . <no-speech> mmhm ? <no-speech> now he's overseas . <no-speech> what story ? that's why I was telling you that I had a stall -- I had a stall for stocking things like clothes and shoes ? <no-speech> what stall ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? you still don't know if you want a stall for clothes or shoes ? mm either of the two and now you know I wanted to know which one you would prefer . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> mm the one that you can %incomplete so now if you put yourself there how will we know so that we can help each other ? be (()) %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> now you know what I wanted %incomplete I don't know . <no-speech> for the stall now you know when you come you were to find me a stall at a place where many people walk through that will be a good one even if will be for this I at least expect your husband %incomplete mmhm ? <no-speech> so that we know how much returns the cash will give us . <no-speech> now you know these days K_M is built and you will even come and find something from there ? and then we can do the deal . <no-speech> <no-speech> okay %incomplete mm come you will be surprised when you visit it's not the K_M you left . okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm and you were told not to return to Kahawa ? and it's not the analogue one I used to know ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I will return -- I will return you know I have many interests there so I will be confused when I come so I like coming to each one separately . like if you %incomplete in fact if you come now you will be confused . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . mmhm first year people have come and they are ripened and they many . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> unluckily those still have porridge in their necks . <no-speech> if you get here you will forget if there was a Dorcas . mm ? <no-speech> they still have porridge in their necks but they are people like you . <no-speech> no now they are the ones who have not -- they have not been affected by the higher education so those are mmhm ? hot cake . <no-speech> really you know how you're using a non-existent phrase a hot thing ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> it's fine let me not be adventurous %incomplete (()) I have come for it there is that okay ? mmhm . it may be we were now -- now -- now the deal I wanted us to do . <no-speech> I later on came to realize %incomplete mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm ? <no-speech> now when you told me you're traveling that day mm I figured it will inconvenience you a lot . <no-speech> mmhm ? <no-speech> mm now when I realized it will inconvenience you I decided to calm down . <no-speech> okay continue being calm . I calmed down but now you see ? <no-speech> if you won't be able let me know . no I don't think so I'm far . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> mm if you will manage let me know now that it's the one I had -- the one that I had put that %incomplete <no-speech> I had walked in these shoes to get drunk but I know I will have it in end month so in case it goes through and end month %incomplete mmhm ? <no-speech> mmhm ? I can do still do the same thing on whatever I had . <no-speech> but I thought I could be putting something hard on you . <no-speech> and then you found a job and decided not to tell some of us because you got scared of being asked for sweet things at the end of the month ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) I have no job . <no-speech> one just talks about it and if it is little you should just say ahh that is only enough for me to pay the house but you shouldn't pretend you have none . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm mm . <no-speech> if I get a job %incomplete <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> I'm an informal sector guy my friend . mmhm ? <no-speech> you see I'm in Kileleshwa today I will call you tomorrow . if you're in informal sector you should have come to K_U this is where the sun is hot you're pretending you're under the hot sun so stop lying to yourself come to K_U that's where the sun is . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> by the way I had %incomplete there's something I had %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> wait do you have my email ? <no-speech> I don't have and you have never given me where could I have found it from and I'm not a thief . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I will send you . send your C_V there's someone who was looking for people like you . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> the ones from campus . <no-speech> actually I told him (()) I was getting married in December . mm he should put effort in looking for us . <no-speech> <no-speech> you -- you %incomplete it's a guy he knows %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> and then comes %incomplete <no-speech>
T421 vitamin
T426 the street traders and government's conflict is breeding in Mwanza. August 11th, 2016. with Christopher Gamaina Mwanza there is every sign of an eruption of another big conflict between the street traders and the government if the offices of the provincial head, district and Mwanza city will continue not involving the traders in the plan to remove them from the city center, it has been revealed. the office of the city council's director has already written a letter to the mayor to notify him that it intends to move the street traders from August 20th this year, under the close supervision of the Mwanza provincial head and Nyamagana district offices. the letter, witnessed by Good Citizen specifies that the leadership of Mwanza city council is expecting to use 200 million shillings to effect the activities to remove the street traders from the city center to the side areas that are in Mirongo Community Center and Sinai Mabatini. the street traders being affected by that move believed to be a legal order by the Mwanza provincial head John Mongella and the Nyamagana district head Mary Tesha, are the ones trading in Makoroboi, Sahara and Tanganyika stand areas. for now, the office of the city council's director recognizes those areas as unofficial for street traders activities, therefore the procedure to move them will be executed quickly by using police officers, the military and various officers of the city. the letter from the Acting Director of the City Council Hosiana Kusiga to the city's Mayor James Bwire insists that, the plan to move those street traders is an execution of the law and regulations of city operations in Tanzania as follows: the local government rules for the city authorities on cities' operations of the year 2008, the by-laws on the environmental sanitation of Mwanza city of the year 2010, the law on the city outlook planning number 8/2007 and the environmental law number 25/1972. street traders complain the street traders' leaders have denied receiving the report on being moved on August 20th this year saying they are also hearing of it from other people in the streets, therefore they are not working on it. I have no information whatsoever, it's just superficial information. "we have not been involved in that and I have no official report from the city director," said the chairman of the street traders union Mwanza province, Matondo Masanja, during an interview with Raia Mwema here in the city, towards the end of last week. he added that his assistants and himself were advised that there was a sitting for provincial, district and city leaders discussing the issues of street traders at the city hall last Friday, but they were blocked from going in when they followed up to find out what was going on. however, it is alleged that the mediation of relocating the street traders was not arrived at during the meeting, it was therefore postponed to last Tuesday for measures to bless the implementation of the program. secretary general of Shiuma Venatusi Anatori, said he had no official information about the issue, but he had started working together with other officials to follow up on the matter from the respective office. "we are planning for the purpose of following up on the report with the city's director, because our members (street traders) have begun asking us about the transfer but we still have no answer," said Anatori and added: "we (union and the street traders) are not opposed to be moved and what they want to do without involving us is cruel. we knew that those who were being moved were street traders, but those are others are just hearsay, we won't act on them. on the other side, the union leaders and other traders who spoke to this newspaper have questioned the reasons for wanting to suddenly remove them from the areas handed to them by the Mwanza city council without even involving them. they have also complained about the move by every leader transferred to the city here, to start looking at their activities with so much force that they claim is weakening them in earnings as a result of being moved to the side areas that are not accessible to many customers. the director speaks when asked about that issue, the Mwanza city council's director Kiomoni Kibamba said that decision to move the street traders is a valid order by the head of Nyamagana district and that the records in his office show that those traders were involved in the planning. "I am on a journey but I have been told that there were sittings concerning the matter and the street traders were involved, that is a valid order by the district head, the rest of us are implementers," said Kibamba over the telephone. additionally, he said that the other reports he has are that some of the street traders required to be moved had been allocated space at the Mirongo Community Center and Sinai Mabatini areas in the previous years, but they later on sold them and returned to the city center. they (street traders) should agree to the change to move to the new areas, the customers will follow them there. "what I understand is that they have been involved even in the sittings of the council of councilors of the Mwanza city council," insisted the director who was recently handed the authority.
T427 e mail
T424 <no-speech> the national examination council in Tanzania NECTA has launched analysis books on the success in the final primary exams P_S_L_E of the year two thousand and thirteen having an implementation program with very big results . Beatrice Eric is reading the following report . <no-speech> while launching the books in Dar es Salaam the minister for education and technical training Doctor Shukuru Kawambwa has said that NECTA has met the government's desire through actions by improving the education standards together with planning of schools into groups of the quality of the success . furthermore the implementation of that plan is expected to have a huge contribution in improving the education standards because it makes an evaluation of education quality offered in those schools and therefore provoke the competition between the students teachers and all education stakeholders and therefore that evaluation will help determine all the schools with various challenges with the aim of finding them solutions since those books have portrayed the need to questions and how the candidates answered by being right or wrong . it will help the government and all stakeholders of education to determine the schools with various challenges with the aim of finding them solutions . <no-speech> not only in competition not only in merit . <no-speech> for us (()) Prime Minister it will really help us to evaluate the work we did . <no-speech> I take this opportunity to congratulate our teachers all over the country for the big job they are doing . the acting deputy secretary of NECTA Doctor Charles Msonge reveals that the statistics of success in subjects show that the Mathematics English and Science subjects are substandard . those books will provide a guideline to teachers and pupils to know where they went wrong . <no-speech> furthermore .
T425 Zitto threatens to skip Kigoma sessions it's written by Fadhili Abdallah, Kigoma. published: 5th September 2016. the member of parliament for Kigoma Urban, Zitto has announced his intention to skip the sessions of the Kigoma Municipal Council, which are used to submit various Ward reports if the regulations and procedures for the proceedings of the sessions will not be corrected. Zitto said in the present situation, such sessions are not productive instead, they have been like coffee and pigeon pea stones. speaking before the closing of the session of the councilors council of the municipality, Zitto wanted to know the quarterly implementation reports of the previous session to see if the challenges and problems the councilors presented at the session had been implemented. responding to that, the mayor of Kigoma City Municipality, Hussein Ruhava, said in accordance with the regulations, such sessions set by the ministry in the office of the president, regional administration and local government (Tamisemi) are for the purpose of submitting Ward reports and if there are things that should be implemented, they are forwarded to the standing committee of the council where they are debated. following the answer, Zitto said he would not attend the sessions because they are not responsible in accountability. he told the municipal director that, it is prohibited to invite him to a councilors' meeting for submitting ward reports. the director of Kigoma Urban Municipality, Judethadeus Mboya said that the argument of the member of parliament was logical and that although the principle does not say so, they would strive to have a summary of the report on what transpired so as to explain the implementation of what was done.
T116 marijuana
T117 the chief chemist to investigate those with two organs. written by Angela Semaya, Dodoma. published: 15th September 2016 orders of laboratory for senior chief of government, it will have power and authority of investigating people with two private parts and to differentiate which is stronger than the other. the 2016 Laboratory Authority of the Chief Government Chemist bill, that was passed the other night at ten o'clock in parliament gives the chief chemist the authority to investigate and identity a person's sex and solving controversies in the person who will have been born with two sexes. "honorable members of parliament I see many of you think the chief chemist's work is to investigate genes to identify the legitimacy of the parent and the child, because I see many members of parliament are supporting that, but gene technology also concerns the identification of gender, people you find women or men who are born with male and female sexual organs, therefore we look at which gene is dominant," said the Minister for Health, Social Development, Gender, Elders and Children, Ummy Mwalimu. Ummy was responding to the contributions of parliamentarians who contributed during discussion of the Chief Chemist Laboratory's Billing Authority in 2016 before the passing of the bill the previous night, the ones who wanted the laboratory's authority to educate citizens about its activities. he said because of that law, now the chief chemist through his laboratory he is able to say how female or male are the ones with strengthen, but there is also a question of ensuring of recognition of a human being especially when disaster occurs in addition to when people travel in groups. he agreed with the parliamentarians that there is a need to educate the citizens about the work of the laboratory of the chief chemist, where many of them think, does the work is to identify the genetic relationship of a parent and child, but now they should understand even those who were born with two genders can be able to solve that problem by showing clearly the dominant gene or the stronger gene, if it's male or female. he said the laboratory of the chief chemist of the government has been there from 1890 and it has been a government tool for investigation of biochemistry in laboratory in different products and in addition that it has been investigation food chemistry, drugs and cosmetics especially when there is a controversy or involvement of questions on criminal cases. while explaining more, he said on the side of the food and drug authority (TFDA) they are working on quality regulatory of food, drugs and cosmetics and the laboratory works on investigative chemistry. the chief chemistry laboratory work is to do chemistry research, genetic, criminal and scientific sciences. this organ doesn't measure control, instead, it conducts investigations for national interest or controversial issues and competitiveness," said the minister. giving the example of the maize, he said there was a problem of the blight poison, therefore the chief chemist is doing a laboratory examination and says, they have found that the maize has poison or not, or a trader may bring the baby's milk to TFDA and it get's trouble, the chief chemist will do a laboratory examination and say if there is poison or there are chemicals that are not safe for human use. after the laboratory examination, whoever has the mandate of saying that this maize should not be sold or these milk should not be sold is TFDA and not the laboratory of the chief chemist. "just as a trader can bring a product, TFDA has doubts about it, in that, this owner of the product can appeal to the chief chemist so that his product can be tested to prove to the TFDA that his product is safe," he said. Minister Ummy was responding to the concerns of the members of parliament, who were afraid that the chief chemist's laboratory would interfere with institutions such as the TFDA and the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS). he also spoke of giving the final authority to the laboratory, saying that in all nations of the world with those laboratories, the government should have a final spokesperson for investigations on laboratory issues, genetics, criminology and criminal cases, but also does not refute the law or other investigation laboratories initiated in accordance with various laws. in terms of allocating enough budget, Ummy said the government had received opinions of the members of parliament and having passed the bill, the laboratory has been granted a status of authority and has now been awarded a status and so its role must be good for running laboratory operations but also employing 400 staff as present 192 are not enough. Minister Ummy said they have received the advice of the parliamentary standing committee to investigate the use of shisha and added that already the government chemist did an investigation and identified that shisha users mix it with bhang, heroine and that's why the government has prohibited its use. however, he said that it will be more responsible to investigate so as to identify which level of additives are found in shisha and why the government should continue to ban the use of shisha in the country.
T114 mirror syn reflector
T115 Vice President Miss Samia Suluhu a formal guest at campaign for the vulnerable children Dar Jun 26 Vice President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Miss Samia Hassan Suluhu is expected to be a special guest in the event of a special event dedicated to vulnerable children the event that will take place on June 26, 2016, at the Azania Boys' Secondary School in Dar es Salaam. speaking to the media earlier on June 21, 2016, Nisha Film production director, Missus Salma Jabu Nisha said that, already all preparations have been completed and that special event will take place at these Azania school grounds where the vice president and other leaders will also attend Dar es Salaam Regional Head, Paul Makonda, Ilala MP, Idd Hassan Zungu, and religious leaders and other guests are invited. commenting on the matter, Nisha has noted that, as an artist and a social mirror and also an ambassador at a center for vulnerable children New Hope Family Advocacy Center in Kibanda Mwasonga-Dar es Salaam, so the event is one of the best repatriations to the community as well as to meet them together. calling on our Islamic religion especially during this period of Ramadan's new moon, Muslims should give Dhaka and show love to our vulnerable fellows especially orphans, disabled, living on the street with children with skin disabilities in association with them in the various activities that can be a part of their comfort to them explained Nisha. the fate is scheduled to be held on Sunday, June 26, 2016, at a high school in Azania, where the campaign is scheduled to start at 10 in the evening and will continue until midnight. children and all people living on the outskirts of Dar es Salaam are expected to be reached where the leaders and supervisors of existing centers in Dar es Salaam have been asked to be informed of their involvement in which they can also contact via 0676894246 or 0789586057. in addition, Nisha responding to the online media question about whether she is ready to create a film that describes vulnerable children, where she has already been playing the film and within two to three months intends to enter the market. I have already created a film that focuses on the environment of vulnerable children and also in the film, artist Joti has been able to participate too," replied Nisha. in addition, some of his films include Mtaa kwa Mtaa, Macho Yangu, Kashfa, Gumzo and Zena na Betina and many more.
T112 <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm hello . mm . <no-speech> how is home Eva ? <no-speech> fine . are you well ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm that is good we're also fine here we're just trying out life though it is hard . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm I was surprised the old man called me the other day I was surprised . <no-speech> old man ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> what was he saying ? <no-speech> just to greet me . he didn't say anything ohh I gave him the letter from school and he refused it -- the letter came but they said there's no money . mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> he said there was no money ? <no-speech> mm they said I don't know the course is for too much money I even asked Vinnie when he came and he said that %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> that the money was a lot and I should look for a course with little money . <no-speech> mmhm . so I even wondered now %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> so for now I'm just there . <no-speech> <no-speech> I heard you have chosen another course did they advise you to choose another course ? <no-speech> ahh forget about that one you know now they have told me -- they told me to redo it again and I realized that it doesn't have -- it doesn't have -- it doesn't have a job market . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> now I can say I am just idle . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> and %incomplete where one is just there . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> (()) and why have you called me with another number ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I have called to greet you since the number is free and that's not to say that you should give someone else the phone . <no-speech> ohh . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm I was doing a recording . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm is it recording ? (()) mm it's recording . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mmhm . but not here . and then will they put it when they go to work and listen to how we talked ? <no-speech> no it's not here . <no-speech> that one is going to -- that one is going to -- that one is going abroad . mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? it's going abroad . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm it's not here and it's not anything it's the Europeans . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> how is Elina going on ? <no-speech> Elena is just there struggling and at times she gets so stressed by work and sometimes she wishes like leaving it . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm and tell Eva we're just trying with life it's all about trying here . <no-speech> <no-speech> and how is Rose ? <no-speech> <no-speech> Rozie is fine sometimes we fall out a little bit but she's just fine . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it's normal . <no-speech> mm . there's no relationship that has no problems . <no-speech> <no-speech> she's just there but I was surprised to see again that -- that -- Kisii has again started calling me and started to bring about issues . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> he started bringing up so many issues . <no-speech> <no-speech> does she call you when Rose is there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm and she mostly calls me when she has come . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> she's just calls to greet me and if I ask her what she wants she says nothing . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> and why don't you blacklist her and I can see your phones are digital ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I have blacklisted her sometimes she calls using Airtel and I don't even know that number . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> but otherwise we're just around there where you are %incomplete <no-speech> how are you ? <no-speech> we're here just trying to harvest %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm oh I have even -- I had forgotten . <no-speech> is it harvest time ? and then now thieves out here failed are defeated they are stealing globes . <no-speech> I heard that a thief is stealing globes . <no-speech> <no-speech> why don't you buy the security guard and put ahh %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> they should bring a welder to weld the security light they can't remove it they can't steal it . mmhm . <no-speech> what do I do ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> what will that one do ? <no-speech> ahh you bring the welding man to weld that thing that's like a net and then %incomplete mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . mmhm %incomplete <no-speech> (()) will be tied on top . <no-speech> they will weld it so that the welding will not be able to open . ohh it surrounds that thing ? <no-speech> <no-speech> it surrounds the globe ? <no-speech> mm ? it surrounds the globe ? no . <no-speech> you see -- you see a globe that was a globe like %incomplete mmhm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> you should just tell the welding man you want him to buy the globe cover for you . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . it's like a hundred shillings . <no-speech> <no-speech> the (()) cover %incomplete <no-speech> mm for the wire mesh . mm . it's usually nailed on wood . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> with the globe on the inside . now the surprising thing is that %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> he broke into the kitchen and got inside and removed the kitchen one . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> the thief ? <no-speech> mm at night while we were sleeping . <no-speech> and haven't you suspected who it could be ? <no-speech> we're suspecting him . <no-speech> is it Elikana's boys ? <no-speech> no there's -- a boy do you remember another boy who used to stay at (()) long ago ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> at whose place ? <no-speech> <no-speech> Kwaiyet I don't know what his name was ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh the one who used to stay at (()) ? you were young I don't know if you can remember him . <no-speech> mm he used to school here long ago then he went to Kitui . <no-speech> ohh (()) ahh I remember him . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm now that is the one since his coming %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . I hear he came to Nyabomo last year . <no-speech> I don't know if it was last year or the other year in December . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> you see so many people bring their phones here for charging . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . they also used to bring too . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> now what made us suspect him %incomplete mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> that day they came with that boy do you know Mary's boy Mary from (()) ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> in the evening like this . <no-speech> so now they took a phone ? so at the time they are leaving %incomplete mmhm . <no-speech> this young man who is here at home is called Otuka he will follow you behind . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> so now when he followed them behind he asked him mm where are you going boy ? <no-speech> he told him he was going to close the gate then he laughed asking him you mean you're closing the gate ? ahh . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . I was in the house but I heard him . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> when they went I returned to the shop and asked why that boy was laughing you know the sarcastic type of laughter meaning what sort of a gate was that being closed %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . you close it . <no-speech> so now on that day the big globe outside the big house didn't last the night he came and took it . mm . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm that's when we started %incomplete <no-speech> since then we have lost close to four of them . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm you %incomplete and the one for the gate -- do you close the gate ? <no-speech> we usually close the gate but it's just timbers so I don't know if he usually jumps over or he uses paths inside that are open . <no-speech> <no-speech> so what happened to the point that he broke the kitchen door isn't it strong ? <no-speech> <no-speech> he came the day before yesterday so it rained the day before yesterday . a lot of rain with roaring thunderstorms so that is why no one could hear him breaking in . mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mmhm and where does Otuka sleep ? <no-speech> we now sleep with Otuka in the room . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh . <no-speech> mm he now has -- got used %incomplete and can't you be doing like if you -- if you think that is the issue then remove all the bulbs when you're going to sleep . <no-speech> and then you go and -- and %incomplete even -- even the one for the kitchen . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm ? you just remove them and go with them . even the one for the kitchen . <no-speech> <no-speech> so that if he comes to check he finds them removed . but if it is a thief you know you should even %incomplete now then %incomplete <no-speech> he will look again for something else to steal . <no-speech> now again in Nyaboma thieves have emerged and are stealing people's chicken . <no-speech> <no-speech> really . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm and the boys -- are they small boys or adults ? I don't even understand now they again went to Pastor Nyatego the day before yesterday . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> the pastor had gone for his sister's burial in Kisii I don't know %incomplete mm . Kisii or where ? <no-speech> they carried his gas cylinder and T_V my friend . <no-speech> <no-speech> really . they carried them from the house ? house . <no-speech> mm they broke into the house and took the T_V and then we heard it was a T_V and gas cylinder . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . then again they recently went to Nyantaro and carried all the chicken . what did they carry ? <no-speech> <no-speech> chicken ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> so now thieves have emerged here don't even mention it . <no-speech> aren't those people who used to make people eat grass no longer there this day ? I hear the government refused that -- that people shouldn't bring them ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> why ? <no-speech> and then listen -- these thieves don't learn just recently they captured some thieves and burnt them here (()) %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> some died and some escaped . <no-speech> did people capture the ones who were caught ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm people captured them apparently they used to steal the whole of this big place (()) where . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm they captured them even Omweri's boy was there do you remember Omweri's boy who was the last born ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> but he narrowly escaped and ran away . <no-speech> mm that Omweri those from the other side ? <no-speech> mm do you remember the small one who was very talkative . <no-speech> mm mm he used to be very talkative . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm he escaped narrowly and I hear he ran away he's not even in this area at the moment . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . and the old man -- what is the old man saying ? <no-speech> or he's just relaxed ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it's now (()) %incomplete <no-speech>
T113 Repoa research to launch a government written by Shadrack Sagati published: 05 December 2016 among the areas where Tanzanians believe that they have not benefited appropriately with their resources is in the mineral sector, as a result of that resource being mined by foreign companies. what we Tanzanians get from that resource is employment while the government is benefiting from various taxes and royalties. since the mining companies began investing in the country, their reports on taxes have not been transparent, something that makes Tanzanians believe that there is fraud done by these companies so as not to pay the required taxes. an example is the auditor's report of the mining companies in the country of the year 2015 that confirmed failure to pay 521.6 billion shillings in tax as a result of a fraudulent environment in the payment and registration processes. but also the Minerals Agency (TMAA) confirmed the existence of 10.3 billion shillings that had not been paid in royalties and service tax amounting to 2.5 billion shillings. this controversy has been there for a long time and it rises from our weak mineral laws that do not provide the government an opportunity to become part of the investment. instead we have remained spectators when the resource is being harvested in plenty by other foreign companies. I agree with the research done recently by the Institute of Research on Poverty Alleviation (REPOA) that has warned Tanzania of failing to benefit from the gas and oil resources if it won't set laws that mandates the government to be a stakeholder of the company that comes out to mine that resource as in Botswana. in that research, Repoa openly showed that despite the minerals law requiring Tanzanians to be involved, it is open that there is a difference between to be given ownership and being involved. that means, if we could be part of the ownership of the mines, we have an opportunity to get to the point of production, but by only being involved, we don't have the authority to know the amount that those mines produce. I believe that if the government could be part of the ownership of the mines, the investors cannot cheat on payment of taxes because the Tanzanians could have the opportunity of accessing the kitchen where there is the production of those minerals. we will not wait to be told we have produced a certain amount, but we witness and see for ourselves, however it's only involvement, you can be told a lie or the investors can lament that the registration fee in enormous, hence charged little tax, something that has made Tanzania not to benefit from minerals. REPOA has given an example of Botswana and how it benefits from diamond minerals. in research done by Abel Kinyondo, it is explained that they started exploitation of diamond minerals in the year 1967 and its residents have benefited from the existence of that resource. that is from the year 1969, when the government began owning 15 percent with foreign investors allowed 75 percent of the company that was given the contract to mine the De Beers minerals. Botswana is among the leading diamond traders in the world, but the revenues obtained from those minerals are closely monitored by the government of that country, as a result of having a system of ownership of the mines in collaboration with the investors. by now, Botswana has the same proportion of ownership of the company with the investors that is, the government owns 50 percent while the investors also own 50 percent, something that Repoa builds it gives the government an opportunity to follow-up from the exploitation to processing of the minerals. I personally support Repoa's research that, in order to benefit more appropriately from our resources, it is important to ape this example by Botswana especially as we head towards gas and oil economy. if we don't do that, I believe these resources will turn to a curse. we have been witnesses of how oil resources brought war in Nigeria as a result of the Niger Delta area that produces oil in plenty, residents of those areas remain poor while that oil wealth benefiting a few people. our capital is land and those resources, while their capital is money. let them come we partner so that we too can get to the kitchen and see the realities of the income and the amount of gas and oil that we are producing.
T110 kitchen
T111 <no-speech> cooks are many but I'm the chief cook Asha Juma . who brings you various recipes from all over the world and today once again I'm here at Malaika Beach Resort -- here in Mwanza town where today I will be having a cook yeah we will have many chief chefs but I will be with a cook from -- from here -- from here Malaika Beach Resort who will also cook for us a very good meal but today we will do chicken . there are many chickens of various types and chicken recipes are equally many . today's chicken is a coconut chicken . there is roasted chicken there is fried chicken but also you can marinate it in a variety of roasts and today we will marinate it in coconut . pardon ? coconut is not good but other alcoholic drinks are also available . although today coconut will be extensively used . I request to welcome you . welcome . <misc> and now I'm complete I have all my chief chefs . maybe one cook is not a stranger when you look at him yeah the one on my right but the other one maybe new to you . and the way I'm glamorous with the turban clothing and whatever don't be surprised that is the culture of (()) okay Malaika Beach Resort here in Mwanza town . now I request to take this opportunity to welcome you and for them to be able to tell us more about what they have cooked for us and what ingredients will be used especially for today's recipes . Dairashin . yes . I am glad to meet with you again . good afternoon my name is Dairashin and I am basically from Mumbai India today I'm going to have Swahili food will be going to have beef mshikaki first then we'll be having meat fish then we have coconut chicken we are going to prepare these three things all here and you'll be having different (()) -- different taste you going to enjoy with me . thank you . okay this is the I have said chief chef from here Malaika Beach Resort . but also the other one here who will also introduce himself and tell us how he too feels being here and -- and prepare for us today's meal ? welcome . yeah thank you my name is Moses James -- Chef Moses James I am an employee here at Malaika Resort I'm in the kitchen as in charge of continental so for today we have prepared about three recipes first we will start with coconut chicken then we will prepare mshikaki likewise we will prepare sauce fish and fried fish as well as fish -- roasted fish . therefore all will have different favors welcome and observe (()) and let's be together . thank you all . I have my chief chefs from here Malaika I have Mister Darashin likewise I have Mister Moses . both come from here Malaika . and as I had informed you earlier we start with coconut chicken type . now I request you to focus your attention on observing this so that you later on after here be able to prepare this meal at your home . I'm confident that you will enjoy this session from beginning to end . welcome once more let's go to the kitchen . <misc> these are our requirements for coconut chicken we are at the chicken's breast so a meal for one person we cook these two chests for coconut chicken therefore we will take this here -- this coconut chicken we will prepare it then here we have requirements that we need though not all will be used here . here we have -- we have garlic these ones also we have carrots that we have prepared we have chopped them these ones here likewise we have onions -- onion water we have chopped it and here it is together with -- with sweet pepper . therefore these sweet pepper are the ones to be used together with wheat flour that we have here together with spice . we also have salt . is what we will use to prepare coconut chicken at the very end we will finalize by putting our coconut which is the cellar . (()) welcome so much but wait we continue with our preparations . <no-speech> so we remove the chicken's breast -- we prepare coconut chicken by removing the bones hence we use the steak of the chest to cook this coconut chicken . so we remove our steak and keep it here . <no-speech> (()) another chest again (()) . <no-speech> once we finish extracting this way these are bones that we set aside then we cut small pieces -- small . <no-speech> <no-speech> once we are through preparing our ingredients we now place our chicken here and we proceed to the requirements . <no-speech> our stove has been lightened you put a little oil a little oil when it gets slightly heated we chop our chicken first before putting anything else we start with chicken .
T448 ZOLA power officially enters Tanga City. the chairman of Central Tanga location, Diana Mussa, has wanted parents of that area to put a clean environment in every house in order to remove the threat of outbreak diseases and said that whoever will disobey that order will have legal measures taken against them. speaking immediately after the opening of a shop for selling Zola power on the road of Market Street Tanga, Diana Mussa said that order will be ongoing and her office led by her everyday morning will be doing an inspection in every estate. she said the committee of the city, has put special equipment for keeping rubbish and vehicles for transporting rubbish in the estates in that way, wanted everyone to ensure his area is in a good environment. speaking at that opening, the Manager, Sales northern Tanga, and Kilimanjaro regions, Peter Laizer, has wanted small investors to use Zola power and said that its cost is low. he has said investors of vegetables and fruits can increase their earnings by extracting vegetable oil from seeds and being able to transport to the markets of the East African Community where they'll advertise themselves different from depending on single customers. he has said that power is a savior to people of all incomes, low, middle to upper and, that power will remove various troubles of charging a phone far from home and following up the news on television together with helping children to study in a good light in the night time. "this power is a savior to the citizens of Tanga because it's easy, you don't take long to get it and also it will help citizens to save a certain amount of money that they were using on other energy to get light, also it helps citizens with a low income to change lives by getting news, information together with entertainment, because apart from light and charging a phone you'll also get solar radios and TV," said Laizer. he said that power has been a savior to village students who were unable to study at night or to study in weak battery light, who now get the light and it is safe for the health of the body and eyes.
T449 the government has fired all the employees of turn power resource limited K_C_P_L from June thirtieth this year that used to produce coal electricity of Kiwira Mbeya province after that company failed to maintain that mine and handed it over to Stamiko . let's get more information . <no-speech> the government has used a total of four point five billion shillings to pay that mine workers which have salary arrears since the year two thousand and eight until June this year who were not doing any work since the year two thousand and five while they continued being paid their salary by the government . speaking with news reporters in Dar es Salaam town the general secretary in the ministry of energy and minerals Mister Eliakim Maswi said that the government is expecting to pay three hundred and ninety-eight workers who were fired an amount of one billion three hundred and thirty-one million including pensions and fare . for that we offered (()) of giving them the salary of one month instead of (()) . but we agreed that we are giving them the salary of one month also instead of going to a leave . <no-speech> because I would be forced to give them a leave . therefore we are forced to give them the salary of one month instead of going for a leave . the goal -- that is there is to close the mine of (()) there in Kiwira and to produce electricity . <no-speech> besides if Stamiko or from (()) and other company . <no-speech> complete instructions will be given by the honorable minister in the parliament . furthermore those workers will be paid their merits on July ninth this year according to their agreement . as I report from Dar es Salaam Samvua Msangi channel %incomplete
T118 made tired
T119 all this time you're hustling to look for something to hold onto . there are times or periods for giving up . duh mister this life is very hard I mean I am not even coming out . it gets to a point of giving up but you know mister and then if you are greedy and -- the greed itself because you can meet someone else who is young with a kind of life where you ask yourself what could be happening . <no-speech> but it's in persevering and being responsible . and then some of us come from poor families therefore it is just hard to manage . <no-speech> you must seek forcefully you must struggle . yes because you'll feel tired with the family itself . you know it's better to have a little for oneself and their parents for them to be well . and start saying ahh old man these for construction why don't you care for me -- what . but us low class we must force . yes because you were volunteering a lot ? for my situation my condition genuine condition . the way -- after managing to eave Mombasa recently now you are able to take care of yourself there financially . how are you helping parents ? parents I -- I help them I -- I help them very much I help parents . they thank God for money to eat like that . right now they believe the way you came in the beginning and now when you left they absolutely believe it is true ? they do not believe in my life . yes they don't believe and they are saying not yet . yeah and can you try us . so what do they believe ? meaning they believe brother . for -- and I know very many people when life is tough a person decides fine me I am doing maybe a certain business or a person or drugs or what or a person goes to steal . why didn't you do that ? <no-speech> no I have not grown in that environment . old man this means know how to sell clothes know how to make peanuts know what a person can do . someone tells you do it elsewhere there is person who desires it . it is true but now it's required -- you know to be satisfied I usually -- you know to be satisfied with something satisfied . <no-speech> when I say to be satisfied I mean instead -- I'll be satisfied with someone else . of essence is to -- goals and to plan yourself . there is no little money . I mean that there is no little money . I am not saying goals ended while they are goals . so it is I doing it this way and him doing it that way we shall go far . <no-speech> first I am the one who enters into %incomplete
T289 Costech to Conduct a National Congress of Science, Technology and Creativity Tuesday, August 09, 2016 Minister of Education, Science and Technology Professor Joyce Ndalichako, is expected to open the fifth Science, Technology and Creativity Congress that is being organized by National Commission of Science and Technology (COSTECH), that will take place in Dar es Salaam at the end of this month. according to the Managing Director of COSTECH Doctor Hassan Mshinda, the three-day congress will bring together researchers, scientists, and designers where the presentation of various research results and exhibition of Sayansi projects and innovation shall form a big part of the congress. further, he said the duty of that congress is "research of push in business is an act leading to industrial development," being supporting the fifth term government's efforts to succeed in its goals of vision national development 2025 in strengthening the national economy, which is being propelled by industrial development. in the same congress also, experienced researchers in various professions, designers, inventors of ideas and other stakeholders from public and private sectors will discuss in lengths and provide answers on how science, technology, and creativity can nurture industrial development at a high speed. Doctor Mshinda has also explained that during the congress, researchers from South Africa and researchers from Tanzania will present results from fifteen projects, which were sponsored together by the government of South Africa through its National Department of Research (NRF) and the government of Tanzania through the department of National Continuity of Science and Technology (MTUSATE), which is at COSTECH. the projects began to receive sponsorship from the cooperation of the two countries from 2013 and they got sponsorship for two years where each country contributed over five hundred million shillings. findings of their research are giving us a chance to involve Tanzanians in understanding what goes on in this research field," said Doctor Mshinda. "we are requesting Tanzanians in general to visit the commission's website which is www.costech.or.tz to get more information about the congress," he added. since it was started in 1986, COSTECH, which is the chief advisor to the government for science and technology in national development, has been sponsoring research in various area especially farming, health, livestock rearing, fishing, TEHAMA, and creativity while it cooperates with various stakeholders such as the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida), World Bank and Department for International Development (DfID) through the department of Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF). by Hilal Ruhundwa, COSTECH
T417 mm . <no-speech> maybe there is something we don't know . mm . mmhm . maybe I will come on Monday . <no-speech> <no-speech> on Monday . the time of %incomplete <no-speech> mm . %incomplete mm . when you were celebrating fifty -- is fifty years . <no-speech> mm . okay on Monday %incomplete mm . lets come and plan for fifty years of being ruled by Kikuyu people only . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> pardon of doing what ? without tribe %incomplete <no-speech> of being ruled by the Kikuyu people only . and they have really ruled you well . no way you people cannot vote for other tribes you just love yourselves . <no-speech> and %incomplete %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> just leave -- us to rule because %incomplete you cannot pass it to someone else . <no-speech> <no-speech> even we will give Ruto . <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh you cannot that one is going to be arrested . <no-speech> <no-speech> will you give someone who is going to be arrested ? will you give him when he is in the Hague prison ? okay we will give you %incomplete <no-speech> we will give you . <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh . even you have said well that is what wanted you to say that you will give me . <no-speech> because people at the top ranks even there nothing they will help us with (()) I know you I will help you . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it's true it's help me I help you . <no-speech> mm . mm . <no-speech> because is just name -- is just Kikuyu name but -- we are all suffering . <no-speech> <no-speech> he is eating at his place . <no-speech> mm him he is eating and sleeping at his place . his side . there some who are on feet feeling the cold . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> and he doesn't care because you cannot remove him from there . <no-speech> (()) I am telling you you will not remove him from there I am there so you wait for five years . pardon %incomplete <no-speech> as he calculates how after getting warmth from this blanket he will see again %incomplete be over . <no-speech> to pass it on to whom . even that %incomplete <no-speech> mm . is he will cover who a little to feel the warmth then return it back . <no-speech> to take from him to cover him himself again . <no-speech> then cover him himself again saying that that this is the last time I will not what again . <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> mm just that way . <no-speech>
T503 Red Cross hyp aid organization
T8 27 December 2012 Chadema answers CCM's issue about Lema's membership of parliament and good leadership by Goodluck Hongo the party of democracy and development (Chadema), has said the revolution party (CCM), is supposed to tell Tanzanians the truth about the billions hidden outside the country and the step taken instead of pretending to be the State House and government spokesmen. the director of communication and campaigns for Chadema who is also Ubongo's member of parliament, Mister John Mnyika said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday while speaking with this newspaper in responding to Mapigoyo CCM that, the winning of Arusha's member of parliament appeal Mister Godbless Lema is a result of good leadership of the party in power. he said their part once complained to State House about the interruption of Mister Lema's case but whoever answers is CCM. he wanted Tanzanians to remember that CCM through its cadres are the ones who opened the case to obstruct the interest of Arusha's citizens who elected Mister Lema as their member of parliament and questioned proper governing of the party in power. "had Chadema not appealed, had lawyers or did not have the ability to fight for citizen's rights about the decision of the Arusha High Court, today Mister Lema would not be the member of parliament for that region," said Mister Mnyika. he added that it is good CCM stopped propaganda and instead go to the provinces and explain to the citizens how many old politicians have renewed themselves, how many corrupt individuals have they removed from the government and repossessed their property. "taxpayers money that has been stashed out of the country and it is not only in Switzerland but also in the Mauritius islands, if CCM really wants to go back to God, it should implement this first," he said. he said according to the constitution, the government has a duty to the citizens who are the ones with power and authority and so the government should be responsible to the citizens and not to CCM. he wanted CCM to keenly read the Chadema constitution, the third article about the power of the people and that us why the Chadema executive committee projected that the year 2013 is to push the government to be accountable to the citizens through the power of the people and not in any other way. "the act of CCM announcing that the year 2013 is a working year means they previously had been sitting idle instead of being accountable to the citizens since they took power," said Mister Mnyika.
T9 <no-speech> <no-speech> damn you are no %incomplete was your number just the same ? it's just the same one that I was calling you by this -- this one is for the office . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> no and mm ? <no-speech> mm the same . even you also had -- you see you also lost mine ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I know I lost my phone I have lost around five phones since the last time we met . mmhm . <no-speech> I have lost %incomplete mm and now you don't even log into Facebook . <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh I was bored by Facebook I log in occasionally . <no-speech> so you see I cannot remember people . mm even %incomplete I almost passed you by it's me that recognized you . <no-speech> <no-speech> from where did you start seeing me ? I was just negotiating a corner I saw a short person passing in a hurry . <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh I was going to the up country that time that's why I was in a hurry . Ruiru %incomplete <no-speech> mm ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm are you okay . mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm just fine just hustling . <no-speech> mm I thought you are a manager somewhere ? <no-speech> really no job I -- I had found a job and quit I'm currently not working . second hand clothes %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> why did you quit job ? so . <no-speech> this - this was not the hour we paid at the place we did not pay for Robbah ? <no-speech> truly you cannot stay where you are not being paid . but you could have %incomplete mmhm so now I'm searching . and the house %incomplete <no-speech> mmhm ? mm you could have looked where you are paid ? <no-speech> pardon ? <no-speech> you were not at least paid for those months ? <no-speech> imagine I heard that they closed down people took that manager to court . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> mm I decided not to waste my time going %incomplete <no-speech> ohh it was %incomplete because even now if you sue him where will he get you the money from now that he closed down ? <no-speech> <no-speech> which company was that ? <no-speech> the one called the Atlantic located at Globe ? <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> on the roundabout on your way to Ngara at Paramount plaza ? mmhm . <no-speech> ohh mm mm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> company for what I_T or ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . it was for computer accessories it was dealing in I_T . mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh mm . <no-speech> since after finishing your education you have been just there ? mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm then I worked on contract in the ministry of lands that expired . expired ? <no-speech> <no-speech> mm . <no-speech> I have also done a bit of sales job . <no-speech> mm ohh mm mm and you have really hustled . mm %incomplete <no-speech> a lot . therefore we have really hustled for sure mm it a must we hustle . <no-speech> really I normally meet with Big I ? big I it hasn't hustled big there is a time we went to visit her with Evaline at Snake . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm she left ? <no-speech> she left ? <no-speech> mm she left . <no-speech> why ? <no-speech> when you get greener pasture elsewhere you go there . <no-speech> you understand me ? <no-speech> we are with her at Ibsos you know Ibsos Synovate ? <no-speech> no the one located in Westlands ? <no-speech> mm it's in Livingstone -- when you go past Westlands then you continue a little mm mm that one . mmhm mm mmhm . we are there with her . mm I know . <no-speech> ohh that's okay greet her for me . <no-speech> mm today where will you be ? <no-speech> are you going home ? me I am just searching . <no-speech> mm ? mmhm . <no-speech> I had been just at home . <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh are you now searching for a job ? so I call you if I find one ? mmhm -- mmhm if you find call me I'm just searching because I do not even stay where I used to because what will I pay for rent ? <no-speech> I used to stay at Kahawa . <no-speech>
T6 the next constitution should resolve those who have and the poor III June 25th, 2014. last week I ended the article by saying the most important issue maybe than all is not the way we can be able to return to a community that is thought to live by just valuing humanity, but how we can be able to build humane foundations in this community which has been infected by valuing of things more. in the last paragraph, I quizzed by asking: "how then can we be able to build systems which will ensure that together with this liberal democratic system, insists on the importance of people to live freely, think freely and seek things freely? how can we ensure that all people still respect the freedom and rights of everyone without caring about levels, religion, tribe, color, gender or disability? these are not easy issues in our societies. during the last article, I reviewed more the foreign ideas, thoughts and theories as they are the ones that have built the foundation of democracy that we are following today. but as I said during the last article, before dictatorship, many areas here in Africa had its systems of operating its political, economical and societal matters. and it's very bad luck that a foreign educational system brought to us did not help us a lot in building us into people who desire to quiz our own history. in several surveys that took place in Africa, there is a big proof that ancient governance systems were not as dictatorial, cruel and lowly as the history written by those who called themselves inventors and later on the writers during and post colonialism tries to insinuate. Paul Ansah of Ghana (in his publication the year 1988) says there is a lot of proof showing that even before the coming of colonialism, many communities in Africa had systems that were following democratic foundations that we are seeing today. that scholar says, "the members of a traditional council allowed discussion and a free and frank expression of opinions and if there were disagreements, they spent hours, and even days if necessary, to argue and exchange ideas until they reached unanimity". his interpretation is that members of a traditional council (who today are like councilors, ministers, parliamentarians et cetera) had a system that allowed free discussions which focused on the rights of everyone. where there was a disagreement in argument, then they stayed for several hours and even when compelled, they stayed for several days arguing and discussing until the time they reached an agreement. end of interpretation. those who follow the Ghanaian and Nigerians cinemas will understand that even Igwe (king) doesn't just make a decision without the presence of a discussion and his council of advisers. Ansah says there was an understandable notion on the importance of people to express themselves freely as proven by sayings, proverbs, the tradition of ancient courts and other things like songs, group poems, poems, drama, tales et cetera. but according to the writer (Kerr in his 2001 book and Ngcongco 1989) before independence, the Tswana (of Botswana) had a system known as kgotla (dikgotla in plural) whose work was to bring citizens together (like in the markets or in open fields) to make a joint decision like designing laws, listening to advice or complaints, to punish wrongdoers and giving information. Kerr says that the kgotla leader was known as Kgosi or Mong of kgotla and that as the community became bigger, the number of the divisions was increased and assigned much more dikgotola to enable the citizens to meet, to share information and make decisions. if you read the history of the Kikuyu for example, you will understand that they had systems that allowed communal issues to be driven on the foundations of listening to others and giving justice. that is why in many African communities the biggest and important attribute for a person to be a leader was not just tyranny. it was his wisdom in listening and issuing just decisions to all community members. but as it was in Athens, Greece with its democracy of approximately 2,400 years ago, even in Africa some groups did not have an equal voice with some other groups. in Greece for example, slaves or women were not counted as citizens with equal rights to participate in their democracy of decision. similarly, even in Botswana, Kerr explains this shortcoming by saying, "with the exception of restrictions in terms of ethnicity and gender on free participation, the Tswana kgotla as a public assembly operated in a fairly democratic fashion, in that it checked and restrained the powers of the leaders".
T7 the CCM with its fools on its back! May 30, 2012 from the small town of Mbalizi in Mbeya Province, we have heard the Vice-Chairman of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (retired), John Malecela. he has told citizens of rural Mbeya Province that, CCM would not put up with stupid (corrupt people) on their backs. this is not a new statement to Tanzanians ears. some senior leaders in CCM have been heard repeatedly insisting that their party should not be linked to the corruption by some of their members. but new to Malecela is the weight of the words he used to convey the message. he has called them "those corrupt fools." surely this is not a statement to pass without being discussed. Malecela had been addressing a rally to campaign for the CCM candidate for Mbeya Rural, January 13, this year. as had mentioned earlier, this is not a new statement to Tanzanians ears. leaders like Yusuf Makamba and others including Retired President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, have ever talked about it. in their remarks they have been insisting that those accused of graft should not to be linked with their party. they should be prosecuted and condemned as individuals. but the funny thing is that, while the CCM leaders sweat on the podiums exhorting the citizens to prosecute corrupt persons individually without involving the party, the corrupt persons still hold CCM cards. yes! they still posses CCM cards, they wear the party's uniform and worse they participate in the planning sessions for the future of the party. but they also sponsor the party's internal elections and even help to finance campaigns for some of the candidates vying for internal leadership. yes! despite that they are suspects accused by the CCM government for theft of public funds, they still continue to contribute funds for the development of the ruling party. the party of the government that has charged them. this is yet another proof that the hearts of our leaders have embraced theories more and done away with actions. as I had stated earlier, old man Malecela has used harsh words which are somewhat similar to the anger of the citizens against corruption and corrupt people. Mzee Malecela has been quoted by the Uhuru newspaper of January 15 this year, saying, "they think the CCM will carry them on its back in order for them to be content. CCM will never put up with those people." Mzee Malecela found himself issuing that statement after sensing that politicians from the opposition parties are emerging to disrepute his party by insisting that it is not taking any appropriate action on the corrupt people. and in his sensing he said, "there are people who will come here and say stupid things, that ooh corrupt people." personally I am motivated by the words, "they think the CCM will bear the stupid (corrupt people) on its back, it cannot bear those people." as I had mentioned earlier, Mzee Malecela absolutely denies that CCM is ready to put up with corrupt people. however, on my part I am not sure whether those corrupt people have returned or been stripped off of their party membership cards of that party. yes, you could say they have not yet been proven in court that they are corrupt therefore they cannot be stripped off their cards. if that's the argument, let's ask ourselves whether CCM is a party with leaders who believe in the concept of "best practice"? so, is this a party that is supposed to be a party leading in the concept of "best practice" to ultimately build a solid foundation for good governance in the country? the fact is that each corruption suspect with a CCM's card is still a member of CCM and furthermore the actions by a member of this party to the point of being taken to court is proof that he has violated his party's beliefs that were formerly called TANU members beliefs. but despite all this, I should emphasize that this strong statement by Mzee Malecela is not to be ridiculed. it is probably a statement to be supported. but support for affirmative action and not acts of "covering up for the bastards." personally, I have lent weight to that statement by asking myself if it is true that CCM is really not bearing fools on its back? but when I ask myself, the list of representatives of the Central Committee (CC) of the Executive Committee (NEC) of CCM began to organize its thoughts. it is a relatively long list, composed of at least 38 people. these include national leaders, retired veterans and those who continue to lead the nation. there are also retired presidents. there are also about four ministers of Kikwete's government and two deputy ministers. but also including ministers of the fourth government who had resigned due to pressure. they include Andrew Chenge and Edward Lowassa. this committee is led by President Jakaya Kikwete as Chairman, Pius Msekwa Vice-Chairman, Mainland Tanzania and President Amani Abeid Amani Karume, Vice-Chairman for Zanzibar. ministers in this committee include George Mkuchika, John Chiligati, Bernard Membe and Muhammed Seif Khatib, while the ranks of Deputy Ministers are composed of Omar Yusuf Mzee, Emmanuel Nchimbi and Doctor Maua Daftari. the other representatives are Yussuf Makamba (Secretary General), Salehe Ramadhan Ferouz (Deputy Secretary General - Zanzibar) Vice President, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, Shamsi Vuai Captain, Retired Presidents Ali Hassan Mwinyi and Benjamin Mkapa. other representatives are: Rashid Mfaume Kawawa, Doctor Salmin Amour, John Malecela, Amos Makala, Kidawa Hamid Saleh and Samuel Sitta. also included are Pandu Ameir Kificho, Anna Abdallah, Rostam Aziz, Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal and Pindi Chana. others are Samia Suluhu Hassan, Haji Omar Kheri, Doctor Abdallah Omari Kigoda, Abdurahman Kinana, Anne Makinda, Fatuma Said Ali Mchumo, Zakia Meghji, now in order to satisfy oneself that this party is leading in "best practice" let's consider the orderliness of some (not all) in the Central Committee. and furthermore, every representative should question his conscience and measure his dignity in the world of those who are corrupt and those who are not corrupt. compare Mzee Malecela's statement to some representatives of the Executive Committee, while we remember that that is the top organ in planning CCM's future. a future that also involves the party in eliminating graft as well as graft involving senior officials in and out of government. let's ask ourselves whether the layer that constitutes CCM's Executive Committee has the complete 'holiness' that is required? is the Executive Committee composed of all pure people and who have the courage of condemning corruption without mincing words? these are the questions that we can ask the representatives of the Executive Committee, one after the other. do they all believe that the CCM will not bear fools on its back? and if it cannot, is it true those fools (corrupt people) being talked about by Mzee Malecela are completely not involved in the Executive Committee? and if they are, why has it become impossible to make them accountable in the context of 'best practice'? and let's ask ourselves, who are those who should not be borne on CCM's back? and at the same time ask ourselves, there in the Executive Committee what role does hypocrisy play in the discussions in dealing with corrupt people? but we later ask Mzee Malecela, among the fools he is talking about, are some among them still leaders in the party and or government? God bless Tanzania, God bless Africa.
T4 Martin Madekwe: construction of affordable housing is a major challenge May 24, 2012 National Housing Corporation (NHC) is among the few public organizations and old remaining in the country, having been providing services since the early years of Tanganyika independence. in this article, NHC General Director, Martin Madekwe, answers questions about the organization and its challenges, as our author, Aristariko Konga reports. question: what is the origin of the National Housing Corporation (NHC)? answer: the origin of the National Housing Corporation (NHC), which was established in 1962, just one year after our independence, was to help access affordable housing, especially in urban areas. that is why immediately after the Government's established the corporation, at the time, it provided funding to the Organization to enable it to build as many houses as possible. using the subsidy, the corporation could perform slum clearance, especially in Dar es Salaam and build concrete houses and roof them using iron sheets. thus were constructed the houses of Ilala, Magomeni, Mwananyamala and others. similar construction was also spread throughout all regions and districts. however, this trend changed over the eighty's due to economic change, where the government stopped funding the corporation. following the move, the corporation was obliged to invest its own revenue, which was largely from taxation. and by 1990 the government found it wise to strengthen the National House Corporation by joining it to the House Registrar, a corporation created in 1971 for managing finalized houses. that is how the current National Housing Corporation was instituted at Law Number 2 of the 1990s. the corporation's goals have remained the same - building or facilitating the construction of a proper residential and commercial houses. however, due to lack of funding like in the past, the corporation is now self-reliant on business grounds. question: what is the difference between the NHC in the past, when the economy is regulated by the government and this era of economic independence and globalization? answer: as mentioned above, the corporation was receiving subsidies from the government. currently, at this time of economic independence, the corporation is no longer subsidized. so, right now it is obliged to run by following all the business principles that are governed by market power. an example here is rent from the corporation houses. in the past, the rent was very low due to government subsidies. we are now obliged to increase rent rates to suit market change. the goal is to get money to pay for the operation, maintenance of the relevant houses, build new houses together with paying taxes to the government. question: which organization in the housing industry are your main competitors, who probably deprive you of sleep? answer: we do not have competitors who deprive us of sleep. all those emerging like PPF, NSSF and others, count them as our partners in our efforts to increase residential and commercial housing in the country. this is due to the fact that housing demand in the country is very serious. National Housing Corporation alone cannot satisfy. the organization would like to see the private sector really contributing to real estate developers to build houses. it is in this way that we can reduce the high shortage of housing in the country. the corporation would like to see more competition in the housing sector. competition increases efficiency, increases productivity and thus manages housing shortages. competition brings challenges to each other to do the best work. question: recently there have been calls for organizations to build affordable houses for the benefit of ordinary citizens. what does NHC do about it? answer: these actions exist. these are legitimate legal actions and the corporation is very eager to respond to these actions. construction of affordable houses requires funding for cheap interest or subsidies be available. in recent years the corporation is building either for its own capital or loan. corporation's capital is very limited. house rent is very low. the rent is used for maintenance and operation activities of the corporation. remaining extra amount after taxation of the income and shareholder's share (the Government) is the remainder of which is directed to construction. commercially you will have to build houses that will be able to repay your expenses. bank loans have great interest. if you are building on loan you will need to sell the houses at a great price. in addition, the cost of purchasing construction materials is great. in order to build affordable houses it is necessary for the corporation to be enabled. affordable funds be available, the corporation be enabled to borrow at cheap interest or receive subsidies from the government as it was in the 1960s and 1970s. the corporation or anyone building low-cost houses be enabled to purchase affordable construction materials. this includes removing Value Added Tax (VAT) on building materials and other incentives. building squares be available in bulk, with structural designs. roads be built by the respective municipalities, which when the houses are completed they get property tax. water be taken to the construction sites and by relevant institutions. electricity should be provided as well by relevant institutions because at the end of the day they will benefit from the payment of those services. if all this happens, the corporation or any other builder can build affordable houses. question: what challenges do you face as a corporation? answer: one major challenge is building many houses to reduce housing problems, and in particular building affordable housing for ordinary people. the corporation also has to sell or rent its houses at low costs. but as noted above, the corporation is buying construction materials in the same market with other homeowners. another challenge is the renovation of its houses. for many years the corporation failed to build its houses due to small income generated by the rent of its houses being very low. question: what would you like to tell your tenants or customers? answer: fulfill their responsibility by paying their rent in accordance with their renting agreements. in addition, work hard to take care of the houses they live in and their surroundings. tenants should understand that they have been lucky to get the corporate's houses. most citizens need these houses. so, they must pay their rent fully so that the corporation can renovate the houses they live in and build others so that other Tanzanians can also get the corporate's houses. question: many public organizations, either they are struggling economically or have died completely. how did NHC come where you are and kept alive? answer: we have come here we are as a result of good cooperation between the Ministry, Board, corporate's leadership and staff. in addition, we have had good plans, in terms of the use of our resources, namely staff (human resources) and our houses. we have been able to make the existing repairs, and we have also been able to build other houses, either in our currency or in venturing with other investors. in terms of human resources, we have encouraged all employees to convince them that the corporation is in line with their lives. so, they are very dedicated to work. question: how many houses does NHC have and how many tenants are there all over the country today? answer: NHC owns 2231 buildings with 15,967 tenants. question: what action do you take against tenants and your resistant creditors? answer: we are removing them from the houses in accordance with Parliament Act Number 11 of 2005, which states that a tenant who may not pay his or her debt within 30 days after being notified, then he is charged with court proceedings. he will also give him a 14-day notice. after that he will be removed from the house and his items will be auctioned to cover the debt claimed. this law has greatly helped the corporation to collect its house's rent and thus increase its income. question: take this opportunity to explain some things that you think Tanzanian public should know about NHC. answer: NHC is a public institution, which was established with a view to helping solve the issue of housing in the country. we will continue to fulfill our responsibility according to our ability. currently, big effort is made to make repairs in our homes. many cities have begun appealing. we are building houses for sale and renting. however, the direction of the corporation is now more focused on the construction houses for sale. the corporation believes it will succeed in the construction of new houses after two key rules in the housing sector were approved recently by Parliament. these laws apply to mortgage loans, namely mortgage financing (Special Provisions Act Number 2 of 2008). this law will allow more people to borrow money from banks to buy a house. with many buyers, the corporation will also be assured of the housing market that it builds. in addition, the second "Unit Tittle" law will also allow the citizens to buy a piece of housing in large buildings. the buyer will obtain a title deed for the section purchased and thus be in a position to use it as a guarantee to obtain loans from banks. the corporation is strong in building apartment buildings and thus sells houses in bulk. thus, the direction of the corporation is good, it will continue to grow by building many houses for sale and enabling more citizens to have their own houses. NHC Director General's profile, Martin Ginedi Madekwe Martin Madekwe, was born on April 12, 1948. married. he received his secondary education from form one to four at Umbwe Secondary School and graduated in 1966. he joined form five and six at Shinyanga Secondary School and graduated in 1968. from October 1969 until 1972 he took the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors course part II, before studying the Estate Management Diploma at Willsden Technology College, London, between 1972 and 1976. in 1981 he attended his studies at Bowcentrum House Studies Center, Netherlands, taking on Postgraduate Studies in Housing, Buildings and Planning. in 1985 to 1986 he took Postgraduate studies in MIT, Boston, USA, focusing further on Real Estate Development, Housing Policies and General Management. his work experience: in 1976 until 1978 he had the title of Estate Officer Grade II-Registrar of Buildings, before he was given the title of Estate Officer Grade I he had from 1978 to 1979. in 1979 to 1980 he had the title of Estate Manager, as well as head of the Department of Real Estate. in 1980 to 1984 he was the head of the Department of Planning and Architectural Unit and in 1985 until 1987 he was appointed the Registrar of Real Estate. in 1988 to 1990 he was the Registrar of Real Estate before he was given title of General Manager of Tanzania Concrete Articles. in 1998 to 2002 he had title of the Director of Property Development before he received his current NHC Directorate position from 2002.
T5 language and nationalism, similar to rice and mixed rice, bananas and banana soup. April 26th, 2015. I would like to finish this row by insisting on two or three things that relate to the Swahili language in the context of building the nationalism of our country. I will also insist on the importance of the tradition of self-belief, self love and self respect. as I had earlier said, not every country is a nation. there are many countries that are not nations. and at the same time I said that there are nations that have stayed without a country for a long time, but stayed as nations even if they had the trouble of struggling in the world. a nation means people who recognize themselves as one, with one beginning and a common future. the importance of language in nation building cannot be ignored. the current state makes me doubtful about the way we view language. on one side, many children born in the cities don't know their mother tongues, especially if their parents come from different tribes. many times, even for the children born to parents from one tribe find themselves being brought up by house helps who speak Swahili. these kind of children totally part ways with their mother tongues, and their language becomes Swahili alone. that situation is different in the villages where children still speak their language of origin until the time they start going to a primary school where they find Swahili. then, all children find themselves forced to learn all the subjects in English when they get to secondary school, and their exams to test their skills are written in English. all the other engagements in a country's life happen in Swahili apart from the engagement to look for education. this is strange! our politics (the same useless politics) take place in Swahili. the debates in parliament (the same useless ones) take place in Swahili. when we communicate in offices and factories, in workshops and in resolving technical issues, we do so in Swahili. when we are in worship, many times we use Swahili. it is the reason even the shepherds brought from outside are forced to learn Swahili. engagements like marriage, courtship, fundraising and weddings take place in Swahili. while we are in funerals, we also bury each other in Swahili. even in quarrels, I have never seen a quarrel between two Tanzanians happening in English. but in seeking skills from schools and colleges, when we want to plan and protect our youth's skills and recognize those who qualified and distinguished, that activity is done in a language that isn't ours. there's no logic. our courts which are many and for a long time have been conducted in Swahili but the laws governing those courts are written in English. I remember the late Francis Nyalali while he was the high court judge spoke more about this for more than twenty years ago. however, there are no visible sincere steps to correct this error. there are several reasons that are making our courts not to give justice to the weak, and many among those reasons relate to corruption acts as we know. but one of the reasons that is denying the weak justice is the one of being judged on laws that they would never read no matter how much they put effort to, leave alone understanding them. if it happens that our laws get written in a language understandable to many, the people with counsel in courts will be able to know what their right is, and they will be able to defend themselves even without having lawyers whom they are forced to that much amount of money. it will be bad luck to my learned brethren, but very good luck to the common citizens. to give a deserving status to a language we call national is important in nation building and in the building of a self believing heart. at the moment we have become people who do not believe in ourselves. as I wrote in the past, we have degraded ourselves to a value that we give to ourselves. language is one of the examples in the degrading of our worth. I have heard the youths in town saying that a European dog is better than the Bongo Swahili speaker. I have also heard a Bongo flavor song saying that after God is the white man. the level of contempt we do to ourselves is huge beyond measure. it's contempt which has been built for a long time resulting from many things. one of it is a huge leadership deficit in ideas and vision. it is true that we are floating like a boat without a captain for now while, we're seeing symptoms of hungry crocodiles and sharp edged rocks in the water. in our confusion from the lack of leadership, every passenger and every assistant captain is doing their best to save themselves. in the shakeups we're causing ourselves, our boat is swaying and seeping in water. the end of this suspense is our vessel rolling and finally sinking and all passengers perishing.
T2 DNA shows that Sonko is not the father to a child in Kwale by Farouk Mwabege investigation from the government laboratory has determined that Nairobi Senator, Mister Mike Sonko is not the biological father of a child he is being claimed to have given birth to with one woman from Kwale County. this was determined yesterday in a case where one woman has presented a case against the senator claiming that Mister Sonko to be forced to care for a child she is claiming to have given birth to with him. a report of the government laboratory in Mombasa, which was signed by Mister George Ogunda was presented in the court yesterday and explained that the child is not Sonko's. however, complainant's lawyer, Mister Leonard Shimaka strongly opposed the results of that investigation. before the Resident Magistrate of Kwale, Miss Christine Njagi, Mister Shimaka said that the investigation was not in an appropriate manner. "validity of these results would have been determined only if the children's mother would have been completely involved in that exercise," said Mister Shimaka. that lawyer revealed that the Senator took those children when they had come from school and went with them in one hotel in Mombasa town where the exercise took place. he said that the situation is a doubted one especially when it is considered that it is only one child who was examined by a private doctor. these results have doubts. therefore, it is my request that exercise be repeated afresh for us to save time for this court," said Mister Shimaka. he recommended that the exercise be done afresh at Path Care hospital in Mombasa town and all involved parties to be involved. "integrity of Path Care hospital is of high standard and the results shall be submitted directly to this court, said the lawyer. that lawyer also submitted a request which required the Senator to continue taking care of those children by buying them food worth 15,000 shillings every month at Nakumatt shop in Ukunda area and also to pay for their school fees until when that shall conclude. the senator's lawyer, Miss Lydiah Kwamboka agreed to that request but strongly opposed claims that the DNA investigations were done in an invalid manner. "that investigation took place in the hospital and considered all important criteria," said Missus Kwamboka. that case will be heard on December 17.
T3 18 December 2012 Kombani: action to be taken against drunk servants. by Pendo Mtibuche, Dodoma. the minister for state, office of the president, public service management Missus Celina Kombani, has directed the head of ministries of governance and service in the local governments to take actions against servants who are excessive consumers of alcohol, rude, lazy, corrupt, degenerates, troublesome, bribe takers and those who misuse their power. Missus Kombani gave that directive in Dodoma yesterday while opening the annual meeting for head of governance and service ministries of the local governments. she said that currently there is a lot of law, principles, procedures and guideline violation in public service such as excessive alcohol consumption and abuse of citizens who are taxpayers. she added that those acts are part of things that happen in local governments and many others which are done to citizens when they go to seek service but the heads of ministries are blind to these without taking any action. "in some of our hospitals, patients receive indecent statements especially pregnant women who go to seek delivery services, response to several letters delay but you are still blind to, I now want you to start taking action," she said. she said that public service in those positions is faced with the challenge of the relevant officials (the heads of governance and service departments), not abiding by the law, principles and directions when dealing with governance and service issues. she added that, right now some of those officials don't follow the public service law number 8 of the year 2002 together with the principles of public service of the year 2003 when dealing with discipline. as a result of that state, most of the servants who have been suspended from work have been winning cases in court therefore the government running at a lose by paying fines and disturbances. "violation of procedures in handling disciplinary matters has been causing the government to use a lot of time in handling cases and to continue paying salaries the servants who have been dismissed and getting them back to work after they win their cases," she said. talking about the challenge of insufficient professionals in different fields, Missus Kombani said many servants are deployed in town regions therefore affecting service provision in the villages. due to that situation, he directed the officers to ensure that all authorities that have have many servants in towns take them to the villages so as to create proper equality. on his part, assistant secretary in the office of the president, public service management Mister Hab Mkwizu said that the evaluations done by their office show that human resource in local governments is still a problem. "many administrative and service issues are still dealt with without regard to legal, principles and existing guidelines and thus resulting to various issues on the servants, losing their allowances and increase of complaints.
T0 court evf law
T1 after Doctor Ulimboka, how about Doctor Mkopi? July 19, 2012. the former poet who is a Roman by birth, Italy and genius of Latin language, Publius Ovidius Naso, popular known as Ovid, he said that, "in the total, the best doctor among others (in the world) is time. Publius who was born on 20 March, year 43 (before Christ) who is been thought to live between 58 and 60 years, he is right up to today. it is true, due to some of our doctors strike in the country, still Publius is continuing to be right. this concept of Publius is pushing me to discuss the issue of doctors in this country and the measures taken by the government officials. in this regard, eliminating strike from some doctors and beating of Doctor Steven Ulimboka (chairman of the doctors association), there's a matter of being taken to court for Doctor. Namala Mkopi (the chairperson of the Medical Association - MAT). first, let me confess that Doctor Mkopi's question should be discussed without interfering with the judiciary freedom, because he is already in court. for that reason, I will discuss the action taken by the state organs before Doctor Mkopi is taken to court. that is, I will discuss or question the precision of the reasons which persuaded the government officials to plan to arrest him in order to bring Doctor Mkopi to court. basically, at the point of arresting Doctor Mkopi, there are many questions to ask yourself about involving government officials on one hand, but also by looking at his fellow doctors on the other hand. let us ask ourselves these questions as we remember the poetry message of Publius that the best physician in the world is time. regarding question number one. this first question is about the decision of the state organs to arrest and sue Doctor Namala Mkopi. in this first question, a number of arguments arise. for example, what is the structure of the Medical Association of Tanzania (MAT)? if you ask yourself the question you will note the structure mentions the chairman, the secretary, and the executive committee. that means, anything about MAT cannot be a chairman's decision and in a particular setting it makes more sense to involve the secretary than the chairman because the secretary is the chief executive. so, based on that structure, why has the chairman been arrested instead of the secretary? from the beginning, with regard to media reports, mentions about doctors and striking were not issued by the chairman alone, but involved the secretary and the MAT executive committee in general. think of it, why is it that the chairman is arrested? without doubt, the right decision based on the government's perspective should be either to sue the entire MAT executive committee or the MAT secretary alone or both of them in general. prosecuting Doctor Mkopi alone will be unfair. arresting Doctor Mkopi is an offense to government officials. it is a proof of what is called 'laziness' to accurately analyze things. tiredness that is facing many government officials right now. retired president Benjamin Mkapa once said that this kind of tiredness is mental laziness. any command concerning any institution, (again a written order) including the one for calling off the strike is suppose to be written to the secretary of the relevant institution and the reason evidently being that the secretary is the executive and not the chairperson. if the institution is been accuse, it means 'thoughts' that build up those accusations believe in the performance "that is unacceptable" of the relevant institution. if so, it is definitely to be brought to court not Chairman Doctor. Mkopi, who is also the only secretary or the chairperson and secretary in togetherness or all the committee for working of MAT. this first question shows us a vacuum of thoughts among government officials. regarding question number two. the second question is, what have the state organs researched about Doctor Mkopi? they claim he participated through MAT to encourage strike and even failed to prevent it. what kind of setup influences (the state) to believe so? there are detailed information among doctors that Doctor. Mkopi wasn't participating in doctors' strike despite his colleagues participating in the strike. I've talked to those close to Doctor Mkopi, who have been closely monitoring this issue of doctors' strike. they confirm Doctor Mkopi did not participate in the strike but participated in helping to end the strike. you may ask yourself, why didn't he participate in the strike? there are reasons, and among those reasons is probably the type of patients he was treating and who he still treating. but another factor is probably the desire of his heart. Doctor Mkopi has been treating young children with cancer diseases. his colleagues say his heart was "heavy" to strike against children with cancer at the Muhimbili National Hospital. in this regard, some of his colleagues began telling him that as the chairman of the MAT he is betraying them, but he didn't care about that. for him, the priority was treating children with cancer diseases. Doctor Mkopi who was a pupil in Mapambano Primary School, Sinza in Dar es Salaam City and Tambaza and Azania Secondary schools (Dar es Salaam) for form one to four and form five to six, the doctor's calling did not persuade him to flee children who were suffering from cancer. he treated the children he knew was a nation of tomorrow and if he had left them, then he would have "to answer" in the presence of the Almighty God. in this context let's ask ourselves, can he encourage a strike capable of suing him personally rather than the institution (MAT)? as poet Publius explained, time will provide answers. it is still clear, the state has failed to investigate this issue. certainly, it is a demonstration of unresponsiveness and lack of discretion within the custom system of the government. if there were reasonable ideas and taking into account the position of Doctor. Mkopi in the event of the strike, he should be charged with his secretary or the entire executive committee of MAT. regarding question number three, we saw a crowd of doctors that had gathered after Doctor Steven Ulimboka was brought to Muhimbili for treatment after abduction and torture. I don't support Doctor Ulimboka beatings and the torture the same way, I don't support anybody undergoing such acts, in this country that is claimed to be peaceful and stable. but I was happy with the solidarity and the unity among the doctors. I expected doctors to appear there when Doctor Mkopi was arraigned in court with the same vigor. it's true the doctors showed up at Kisutu court, but not with a similar vitality as of Doctor Ulimboka. what interpretation does this give? interpretations can be multiple. for example, it's possible since then doctors didn't have faith in Doctor Mkopi, probably because he was treating cancerous children all the time of the strike (he didn't strike). but it's possible some of the doctors didn't arrive there (Kisitu court) because of other responsibilities or personal emergencies. but it's also possible others thought it was good he was arrested despite his kindness of not striking. the government was required to investigate this environment. about the number four question. question number four concerns the position of Doctor Mkopi after returning from the State House where the talks between MAT and the Doctors Association took place on one side with President Jakaya Kikwete on the other side. after coming back from State House, Doctor Mkopi meet with the doctors. in a special way, despite there being feelings that, the doctor's panel which came from State House has been sent to call off the strike, it is Doctor Mkopi who in a big way, persuaded his colleagues to return back to work (at least for several weeks). in other meaning, is Doctor Mkopi who urge some of the doctors to take their faith back in the hope that, their grieves will be worked on after some of their colleagues meet with the President. a person like this who brings back hope in that level especially in hard environment for been doubt by his colleague, cannot cause the strike. in other way, a person of this character will continue to look for solution. it is possible even inside the institute (MAT) Doctor Mkopi was persuading his colleagues to look for a solution. law enforcement agencies were supposed to investigate Doctor Mkopi's position inside MAT before taking action against him personally. with no doubt, the time shall tell as he said, poet Publius. about question number five the fifth question is about the general behavior of charging Doctor Mkopi in his position as the chairman. his being charged is associated to his position in MAT. without a doubt, other characters, as I had said earlier, were supposed to be here or it's only him (Doctor Mkopi) and his secretary general or both of them and the executive committee of MAT. by bad luck the accused is Doctor Mkopi who if those children suffering from cancer are questioned or the their parents, without a doubt they will remember Doctor. Doctor Mkopi treated you during the strike so he never went on strike. those children or their parents will be saddened whenever they hear that the doctor who had treated them is the one charged for instigating the strike. this environment should have been researched by Commonwealth institutions. the way things are, the content of the fifth question in this article brings us a message, Doctor Mkopi is being tortured psychologically. by bad luck, many of us are hurt by the suffering underwent by Doctor Ulimboka but we don't care about the psychological pain being experienced by Doctor Mkopi. the pain that many can recognize is maybe the children that he used to treat for cancer in Muhimbili. my call is that, the government officials should research on this question keenly. God bless Tanzania, God bless Africa
T416 my name is Maria I am from Pugu . many young people have failed to marry early because you find them had ever done or see how they -- their parents -- their brothers are living in their marriage . therefore marrying hard for them becomes hard because they are afraid maybe of how their in-law was treated or as their brother was treated . thereby reluctant to marry early . and many marriages fail because many men these days are not faithful . women know they have been deceitful . you can say that you're marrying a woman but you can fail to marry that woman or is there truth in the things she does yes ? but indeed you're supposed to marry her but she has someone else outside . <no-speech> now that is why you'll find many young men these days (()) -- do not want liars . they marry before making plans . that one has just rushed to meet someone haphazardly what you have planned itself without knowing how the other person is and that they know each other deeply before taken to parents and eventually get married . others just do it haphazardly -- (()) perhaps end up marrying . but (()) later on they fail each other due to each other's character . right ? another thing nowadays starts by trusting what is spoken . it's not for a woman and not for a man I mean all of them become dodgy . so you'll find someone who marries for two days and starts complaining of rent while someone who had left finds it difficult to marry because when he looks back at his past life where he met tests no he decides he needs to rest first . you see he listens . now as he listens you find that he does not have any issue regarding marriage . immediately he settles someone else comes -- mister how are things boss leave me alone first about marriage . a look at the attitude of the young men maturing -- to sit down to negotiate till you get to a point of being reminded to marry it is a small test because how life itself is . <no-speech> and when you look at how youths keep themselves there is another one who is not organized what can he do to at a point where he decides to marry . <no-speech> he might rush from the influential desires of his fellow youths sitting on a rock advising each other and come to realize perhaps there is a girl he has seen on the streets and understood her . he spoke to her without knowing the woman or maybe she was raised in which (()) . <no-speech> just rushes and only goes to marry her . <no-speech> his destiny comes and find himself staying inside his house with her . <no-speech> yet they cannot even finish a month . <no-speech> you find marriage -- dies because a woman is not prepared while a man is not organized . <no-speech> you become one who rushed at things that (()) . <no-speech> if you look at passion at the moment young men possess (()) you will find a woman who likes to go to the disco . she likes to dress well to appeal . a man who lacks capability . <no-speech> yes . you can find a man likewise being male and because he's a man himself he has unfulfilled youthful desires in particular . you go and rush into the issue of marriage . it becomes a small test . the trust diminishes the man -- first a man becomes -- when he's looking for income and returns home if he tells me for example we have a domestic problem maybe on rent or we can call him to buy (()) as long as he knows I don't have ? I now ask myself doesn't my husband everyday have money what do we do ? now why should I not go so that I look for work . he does not want . for how long will we live like this ? as he sits at the rock he sees women -- how women are seduced there . so he feels that if I go I will be probably like them . because he lacks confidence in himself . as he lacks confidence in me (()) I will be exhausted . I can depart . the conflict started and I left him and the house and thus (()) there is no trust we are used to loneliness as Tanzanians . we do not want commitment . if we are committed our marriage will not break . you will find that you will see each other today as strangers and marry in two to three days . you see ? on the contrary -- you have not learned each other's behavior yes ? now you find that for a brief period he may have concealed his character . yes ? but once you marry someone's behavior begins -- to change . and as someone's behavior changes you see huh I cannot conform to this one -- and that person . those promises that you promised -- before you marry %incomplete <no-speech> now life changes its results become different . <no-speech> that man decides -- to leave you . a situation like this is what makes other people leave others their wives and women from the sufferings they get decide (()) to be completely left . you know nowadays due to the economic situation the way you are you find many young people or people who are single . perhaps the person himself finds his own life a bit difficult to a certain level . <no-speech> now he becomes worried that what if he enters into marriage the situation will become more difficult for -- every time he thinks that he hasn't been able to while alone . <no-speech> he ends up with that worry .
T467 <no-speech> ohh how are you -- how are you today ? mmhm I have started to hear you now ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> how are you today ? mmhm is very good tell me . <no-speech> <no-speech> ohh I am very fine yeah I wanted to -- to ask you -- concerning political matters . mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh politics %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> yeah you you -- %incomplete the only matter I hear these political matters are -- are -- political matters aren't very good because we were I guess this our old man now will get a seat but I hear politics these days have changed now it's like they have started to bring win win . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> yeah . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> okay . hello mister Juma . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> do you hear me ? yeah but now -- not like -- not like Kenyans . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> hello . mmhm not like Kenyans %incomplete <no-speech> I hear you . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . mmhm we need -- we are needed to be people -- prayerful people %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> itself . <no-speech> yeah at least a person mm -- a person who you can need a certain person to be able to lead but he misses . therefore it's a must ahh that person who you involve God . mmhm . <no-speech> meaning -- meaning mm leadership comes from God . <no-speech> <no-speech> itself . <no-speech> yeah now that after God has selected that person is the one -- that is the one who will be able to lead . now %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mm and how we pray now when we choose -- we get who has -- a leader who has -- who will continue with peace . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> do you hear me Juma ? yeah Kenya we need %incomplete <no-speech> yeah I hear you . <no-speech> some who has -- will consider peace %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yeah . <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm let's stop listening to this chaos of people to fight each other fight each other . <no-speech> yeah the important matter is to be with peace . hello Mister Juma . when there is peace %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> yeah the important matter is to be with peace %incomplete <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> and then ahh we get a person who will be able to be a good leader %incomplete and %incomplete mmhm peace . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yeah a person -- a person who -- a person who will be able to carry the country in his heart and -- and also -- yeah and also to be able to unite all Kenyans without discrimination . yes true . <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> mm -- mm . <no-speech> the country can't be with -- it can't be with peace except with -- mm except with a leader who has wisdom or who hopes to God . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yeah therefore Kenyans let's prepare for any person who will win let's be able to accept as a Kenyan and we be able to work together with him %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> and one who fears God . in order -- %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> yeah in order to for us to be able to have people who at least will be able to help the country to be able to make steps in the economy %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> mmhm . <no-speech>
T509 State house syn presidential residence
T508 letter condolences
T545 news weather
