MATERIAL_BASE-1A_90720489 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Majaliwa: We will protect peace with all strength "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Our Journalists "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 13 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has requested all religious leaders to use the homes of worship, to encourage their believers the importance of protecting and maintaining peace and stability in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He has emphasized that the government will maintain peace and stability in the country with all the strength to enable Tanzania to be sure of continuing to work on their income and bring productivity. The prime minister said that while speaking to the believers of the Muslim religion after finishing the Idd el Haji grounds at the Mwembe Fields, Yanga, Temeke, Dar es Salaam yesterday. Speaking at the Idd council said; "the government will continue to strengthen security in all areas in the country. My call to religious leaders tell us about the protection of peace as well as denounce evil actions so that the nation can move forward. " Majaliwa insisted that the citizens continue to pray for the pilgrims in Makka and Madina in Saudi Arabia, continuing with the Hajj service to get safe. Also the prime minister used that opportunity, to request the citizens to help them in the situation and property of people who were affected by the earthquake in Kagera province, where a total of 16 people died, others were injured and thousands of citizens lack shelter after 840 houses fell by another 1,264 houses to get a crack, including 44 buildings of various public institutions. Previously, while reading the Idd field speech at the field, the international lecturer, Sheikh Nurdin Kishki said Islam is a peace religion, therefore he has requested the Muslims to refrain from acts of breach including the killing of people who are not guilty. Sheikh Kishki said it is important for people to protect peace, as it comes, it is difficult to get it. He gave an example of Libya and Egypt, which until now has failed to restore. He said any person who is involved in the acts of bloodshed, lied to the property of people and a break of his colleagues, he will be stormed, therefore he urged the residents of Temeke especially the residents of Temeke to avoid them. "Temeke is now leading in the events of murder, they killed up to guards. The police have been convicted, this is so painful. The people who were working to protect citizens and their properties are being convicted, "he spoke with sadness and requested the citizens of Tanzania to prevent them from the same actions. Also, Sheikh Mbiki congratulated the fifth term government for showing the commitment to serve the citizens and bring development, therefore he urged the citizens to be on the forefront to cooperate so that the nation can be able to move forward. "My brothers have been given great honor today to pray for Idd and the prime minister, again he has come here at the Mwembe Fields, Yanga, this shows the closeness of our heads to their citizens especially the low level," he said. Bakwata, alia and professionalism of leaders in another step, the Supreme Council of Muslims Tanzania (Bakwata), has urged the Muslims to change by doing things according to the profession so as to avoid leaders with erosion of ethics and not knowing. The Mufti of Tanzania, Sheikh Abubakar Zuberi made the remarks yesterday after Idd prayer at the headquarters of the council, Kinondoni, which was followed by the Idd council that was attended by various government officials. The Mufti said that the time has come for Muslims to change, because they are working against their professions. He also said that the council is expected to open the centers of providing education to increase knowledge 'housing', the aim being to increase skills and knowledge of religious education in the community and the country. "The presence of these facilities will help to provide ignorance and have good leaders from the education of certain positions that read and know to live with people, previously Bakwata has never ever had its religious centers that depend on," he said. In addition, the Mufti urged Muslims in the country to start teaching centers of religion and other subjects like language, technical. He said it is good for every Tanzanian to have bitterness for his country and to discover themselves by working with the ones that brought them by refusing the evil and tolerance so as to bring development. "We are ordered for integrity to do good if there will be no luck in the country, we will enable them to do a service and work... God likes," he said. Moreover, he used that opportunity to pray for those who had a disaster of the earthquake that happened in the provinces of Kagera, Mara and Mwanza recently. On his part, the retired president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi said it is good to change and build new Bakwata since the Mufti has shown intentions. "I want my brothers we change us to start with this that he talked of Mufti to show Bakwata, what will it do and it will do what we help because one finger doesn't think this is good," said Mwinyi. He said that every new thing begins with weakness, everyone is supposed to add strength so as to bring change. Shein was concerned with the conflicts of Muslims President of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, speaking at the Idd council, he urged the citizens of Zanzibar to maintain peace and calmness and so as to give an opportunity to the government to implement development plans that in the second phase of its implementation has started well. He said that at the Mkanyageni Secondary School Hall in Pemba, in a speech by the council of Iddi. He said in the next five years, the government is in a step to strengthen community services and development projects, including clean and safe water which for now its implementation has reached 80 percent. He said more emphasis on the availability of that service has been set in the villages, whereby by the year 2020, the service can reach residents by 97 percent. He said that the implementation of clean and safe water projects is going well due to the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar to be supported by international organizations and financial institutions. "My call to the citizens of Unguja and Pemba is to strengthen peace and stability of the country and to love each other so as to give an opportunity to the government to implement its various projects of community services and development... we have started well by using our local energy together with the support of the country's partners of development," he said. He said that great success have been reached in the health sector. On the side of Pemba Island, 27 health centers are in the last stage to be completed including the huge construction of Abdalla Mzee Hospital located in Pemba Province. He said the construction of that hospital being done in great partnership with the government of China, is in the last steps to be completed and make the citizens of Pemba to get all health services in Pemba, without traveling to the island. He Said the hospital has qualified for the referral hospital. On the side of small health centers, he mentioned new stations that will be built to be Ndagoni, Toni, Vienna and Chake-Chake in Pemba Province. "We are committed to ensuring the health sector services are better and reach all citizens including rural areas... we do not want to see a citizen is forced to go to Unguja to look for treatment at a high cost," he said. Furthermore, he said the construction work of the road is going on in Pemba Island and its aim to ease transportation to the villages to strengthen the agricultural sector. He mentioned the roads of Mgagadu to Kiwani with a length of 7.6 kilometers, Kengeja to Ole with a length of 35 tons as well as the road of the class to Ksky has been completed at the rubble. He said all the development will succeed, if the issue of peace and stability will be given priority to the citizens to obey the law together with leaders of political parties. Doctor Shein reminded citizens that among the great training, which is found to Muslims during the Idd el Haj holiday is unity and solidarity. He said that the vigil has caused millions of Muslims, to gather together in the Arafat stadium without caring for their financial capability or glory in their tribes. The Idd issue together with the council was attended by various leaders of the party and the government, including the second Vice President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, the minister of state, office of the president and the chairperson of the Revolutionary Council Issa Haji Ussi, the speaker of the House of Representatives Sir Ali Maulid and Knowledge of Zanzibar Khamis Haji. This story is written by Sophia Mwambe, Dar and Khatib Suleiman, Zanzibar "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_28280622 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Drivers that increase the fare this festive season. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Lucy Ngowi "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 07 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. December every year is a month where many families are united, because many workers tend to take a holiday and students go to school for a long holiday. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. As a result of that reason, many families tend to travel to different areas to change the environment. In the past, the hosts of Kilimanjaro Province had a culture that by this month they must go to their home to celebrate Christmas and New Year holidays. But in recent years, this situation has spread across all provinces of Tanzania, where families may celebrate the holidays with parents or their families in the villages. As a result of this culture, it was built up in many families in the country for this month of December, the bus owners in the provinces have been seeing that is the only area of being sent quickly by increasing the fare for buses. The fare rises every year from 15th this month, due to People travelling in numbers. The program owners increase the fare every day according to the population is increasing. The ones with buses pass the season to be a grace or the harvest because they impose huge fare, because they understand it must get passengers. The fare in fact has been a great pain for many passengers, especially those with low income. For example the years ago, the fare to go to Kilimanjaro or Arusha was between 20,000 and 30,000 shillings, but when it comes to this period of "harvest," rises up to 50,000 to 70,000 shillings. For those who travel this month of December, they will agree with me about the fare, as I explained above, it has been a tradition for people from all provinces to celebrate the holiday in where they were born. A good example is at the central bus station of Ubungo in Dar es Salaam city, where in the period from December 15 to 24, most of the buses have already been completed, that is the passengers have already paid tickets early. But there has also been a dirty game to some of the people who call themselves the bus agents. They have been buying those tickets early with the aim of selling them at high prices. And this period the passengers are usually many in that bus station because they lack the transportation of going to where we are headed. This thing we have been witnessing for all the years, although three years ago the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA), has been able to act by beating all the fines that increase the price, a step that has reduced the little to them. I am saying Summer has reduced the problem because when they inspected the fares of those buses, they are showing that they have been sold at the normal price, but many citizens are complaining to be sold by those agents at high prices. My request to SUMATRA is to ensure that it will control this situation to happen this year. It will use all the tactics to arrest a few clever people who hurt the citizens by switching off the tickets in this festive season, who they call the season of harvest. In order to stop this situation, it is good for passengers to give information early when they meet the trouble, although others feel it's okay because they have been prepared to travel and they have the ability to pay any fare. I am sure if citizens will cooperate well with the state agencies, there will be no haphazard increase in fare in this Christmas season and the new year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53481521 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Contractor in Kinyerezi- Bonyoby given 25 days "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Sophia Mwambe "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 24 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda, has given 25 days to the contractor of Texas Company, Francis Musiba to complete the construction of the bridge that joins Tabata Kinyerezi area and Bonyoto. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, he has directed the engineer of Ilala Municipality, Nyamagalula Masatu to make sure he is cooperating with the Tanzania Roads Agency (TANROADS) to inspect that construction as a quality and the required level has been reached. Makonda gave that statement when he visited Kinyerezi bridge and inspected the bridge as part of his tour in Ilala district. Despite that directive, he has also ordered the Roads Agency (TANROADS) and the supervisors of that project to inspect the quality of the bridge if it has the required standards before starting to be used. He gave that directive after the citizens of that area to complain about the delay of the project that was mentioned in the year 2013. After those complaints, Makonda asked the member of parliament of Segerea, Bonna Kaluwa, as he once arrived at the bridge to inspect the construction where he admitted and joined the citizens accusing the contractor for delaying the construction of that bridge. "I am here five times and the contractor told me this bridge would have been completed within four days since April 2016 but until now it has not been completed and my citizens are continuing to suffer," said Bonna. The answer made Makonda wanting Masatu to put open the contract of that bridge was signed when he answered that the contract was signed on March 30th, 2015 and started on June 30, 2015. However, the representative of the Texas Company, Musiba denied the construction reports to start in the year 2013 and claimed that it took place on April 29 this year. "This bridge is under the agency of roads (TANROADS), therefore we are waiting to get a permit to demolish some of the areas that are reviewed by this project from Ilala Municipality," he said. Makonda said that if the construction will not end in that period, he will not be given any tender in Dar es Salaam. In another step, Makonda instructed the police commander of Kipolisi, Ilala, Salum Hamlow to arrest the chairman of Bonyoby, Solomon Kagaruki, on accusations of not implementing its responsibilities including taking bribes, threatening citizens and also alleged to take 10 percent of the price of the plots that are sold. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query4366 egg food nutrition
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45743319 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Simba celebrated in town, Yanga are burning "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Our Journalists "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 07 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Simba yesterday broke the summer of being defeated in the Mainland Premier League after accepting a 1-0 defeat by African Lyon in a match that was played at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While Simba played that summer, his old man, Yanga won by a win of 1-0 away from Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya against Prisons while Azam was accepted a defeat of 2-1 goals from Mbao FC at the CCM Kirumba Stadium, Mwanza. At the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, it took the 90th minute Lyon to get that victory against the leaders of the league, Simba with a goal scored by Abdullah Mstle who joined the Rohan Hafidh before returning to the net. Simba had been attacking all the time of that game while Lyon played the defensive game that was claimed by surprise. In the 38th minute, Lyon held the attacks through its player Miraji Selemani, but his ball of the punishment he did hitting hard and from outside. Jansen had a Little Doubt to make Simba a goal in the 48 minute but his shot was above. Laudit Mavugo with him to join him in the 60 minute but he was in a good position, his ball is intimidated by Lyon defenders and broke the danger area. The results have enabled Simba to continue leading the league standings with 35 points. At Sokoine Stadium, Mbeya, the defending champions Yanga, was Simon Msuva who scored the goal through a penalty kick in the 74th minute. The referee for that game gave a penalty after Yanga player, Obrey Chirwa, was played at the danger area. Previously, Prisons got a penalty by Yanga's goalkeeper, Beno Kakolanya to save the kick and thus leaving the team being safe. Yanga has now continued to be the second position in the position with 30 points, different from five points against the leaders Simba. The second winner of the last season, Azam has continued to get the results of programs of programs after yesterday they were beaten by Mbao FC 2-1 at the CCM Kirumba grounds Mwanza. The results have enabled Azam with 22 points while Mbao FC scored 16 points. Mbao FC wrote his first goal in the 30th minute being scored by Venance Ludovick, who joined Boniphace Maganga before returning to the net. In the 50 minute, Maganga was scored for the second goal and the 67 minute Francesco Seahaawira scored for Azam a goal of thanks. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1340 court law
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98958977 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I am pleased with Farmer, I don't know Mame- Joyce Klan "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Hamida Hassan, the presenter of the program of Women Live, Joyce Klan has made a stern warning of the year by explaining that he was punished by her husband "dinner," he sees no reason to praise him through the internet. Joyce, who has been in power and gave her a reputation to her husband every time he got to eat "food" that has explained that he does not have a problem to do so because everyone knows if you are married must be given "dinner" and ushibe that will enjoy the marriage. "I Don't think that because it's very common things, who doesn't know we have come from our parents to follow" dinner? " So I do not see the danger of truth, I will continue to praise my husband when he is happy, "said Joyce. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17133543 During the Eid el fitri holiday, near some citizens who had started to flood the streets in several streets of Dar es Salaam for the purpose of buying their needs for the purpose of preparation for the holiday. Eight years have seen a huge crowd getting to buy the needs of there is the famous Congolese street in the city of Dar es Salaam. Speaking about the preparations of the Eid holiday The citizens have complained about some of the business people To decide to raise the price of clothes and food without considering the status of the lives of citizens They have said that he saw the forms for if not controlled There is a risk of many low-income people to get their needs in the city, I will be forced to celebrate that day with weakness Sometimes some of the small business people popularly known as machinga have complained about the exploitation of the city's auxiliary police and therefore forced to run here and there to cause huge congestion to customers. Warning: @ Mwanjala to abandon them anymore
query4406 brick cinder block construct build
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_69893795 The wildlife officer in Kenya have arrested a crocodile and Kobe who were being treated contrary to the law and one person in the country. Non-commercial use without a permit The man, known as Gerrard He has been reported to have used the animals to get income in the business that he was driving in the main road to enter, then he has been getting money from artists who have been users of being roads. The man was found after awarding the officers Therefore, we had to break the area which was being used to run the business. And removed those animals and satisfy them in the reserve areas
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_36765876 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The bride's wedding! Aug 15, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Your seeds is mature today, mine will be mature tomorrow. It is a good thing for us all of us if I will not grow up with you today, and you help to grow tomorrow. I can't have friendship with you as I see that you have not build a friendship with me. The season will be called, we should not be trust and cooperate, then we are all going to lose losses. " (Philosopher David Hume) Kuna while traveling to Finland. There he was very surprised to see a lot of tractors have been placed on one farm. I asked my host; where? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I felt that it is a culture of farmers in that country. Every year I have a farming competition for sectors. The farmers of one area may be in their colleague's farm and made those competitions; they are looking for who has been above his colleagues in making the lyrics, growing rapidly, and so on. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Only in Finland, I understood, that the culture started since the era of hydrogen. The tractors were in farming, it happened to one farmer, prompting his colleague; "do your tractor is the same as the strength of many horses? It is in that environment, even the measure of horses will begin to be used; horse Power, it means the horse is used even today in testing the energy of various machines. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I will speak about the importance of social capital (Social Capital) and civil society (Civil courage) so as to uplift the economy of one person and eventually lift the economy of the country. For the society and the country in general, it needs to have this important capital. The growth of social cooperation in various activities, be sad or celebration, it is an example of the existence of a good foundation of social capital. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This concept of social and social capital may be new to some of us. However, it is something that we witnessing every day. We see different social groups increasing. Today we have examples of the communities that are denied, we have the communities of lending and many others. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Let us take this example of the community with cooperation in celebration, for instance, wedding. In the meantime, entertainment spots is no surprise you meet with people who are in the session of the organizing committee of the wedding. It is these committees with planning to make a wedding. Sometimes regarded even what is called a "wedding day!." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The wedding committee will meet even twice a month. And often they meet for luxury spots after hours of work. The committee will air strategies to make the wedding as other members of the committee without beer. And even when they make a wedding, they will meet again as a special committee for "breaking" the committee. They will quickly eat, they will fill it. A Fungu of doing that is also planned in the wedding budget! "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While our colleagues in Finland are competing in development activities, we, together with our poverty, we are still competing in doing a great luxury. We use millions of shillings to do the wedding of "dying people" while there are people who died in poverty. They are dying because the road from their villages up to the districts of the districts are not used! There are people who die for lack of money to buy drugs for their diseases. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Let you recognize it closely this concept of social and social capital by checking the writings of Professor Robert Putnam in his book; Making Democracy Work (make Democracy work). Professor Putnam, an American, gave his book in 1993. He and his colleagues did research by checking two areas of Italy; north and south. This was 70 years old. The two parts of Italy have been with the economic development that is different from this today. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Italy's Southern is poor, compared to Italy in northern Italy. Professor Putnam through the study notes, that this is coming from Italy in South Africa missing what Italy has an issue. The people of Italy in the north for many years have had a culture of joining together in different communities of the things that they like; there are a community of choir members, communities of fishermen, the communities of going to watch the plane. There is also a community or different sports clubs. In general, there are many communities of people from their privilege. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But the primary thing he saw Professor Putnam is the fact that participants in these communities are out of checking their personal interests and the community. It begins to look at the interests of the whole community in the meaning of the nation. This is when it comes to the concept of civil society. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The civil society is the state of a person to discover themselves as a citizen in the country, and that if a citizen has a responsibility to put the interests of the country he was born and registered his citizenship. He has a responsibility to participate in building his country. The capital of social, civil society and trust is three radical things that according to Professor Putnam, have fun to grow to the economy of the region or the concerned country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Professor Putnam and his colleagues are revealing that Italy in South Africa has maintained its development because of its people to look more than personal interests and those of the families around them. It is in South Italy where until today we heard there are groups of fund as the famous Mafia district. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When we get rid of scientific explanations and professionals more than this Professor, let's look at the situation in our country. Indeed, this social capital is established in our society, Tanzania as a country can make steps of development. We look like these wedding committees and the burial sites that are planning and using millions of shillings for the "wedding of people" and preparing a burial, perhaps for "people to come!" They would put the power too in looking for family activities. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That for the same procedure they would have formed an infrastructure committee for our streets. They should have been making strategies to ensure that money is driven by people are encouraged to make holes on the local roads, with dirty water that is being raised. That should be the "dying person." Locks, neighborhoods, districts and provinces by involving citizens competing for such activities of construction of the nation. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Let it reach a place also, those who have put the selfish feel better in the community. They are not given the qualifications to put their selfishness and even by sabotage the public property. Today in our country, the leader is proud to drop in the public car and allow the driver to continue to fly the vehicle engines until he came back to the big work. The car can stand up with the engines being sent even for the whole hour! Destroy the oil and tax of citizens. That big one when he is with his driver in his private car, she's turned out when the driver is unable to shut down the engines while he has gone down to make the purchase at the store. Then he will see the pain of the fuel that is planned for free. He thought about the cost of fuel with his pocket. But with a public car, he does not see the pain of the oil, he destroys the government! That is where the lack of civilian casualties. Lack of patriotism. It is examples of the actions that are entertaining behind development. This debate will continue. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53840253 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When we have organized we can improve our towns yesterday we published news about the Kinondoni Municipality plan in Dar es Salaam city, to demolish all the random houses and then put it in a modern shape. Speaking to Mwananchi in a special interview, the mayor of that municipality, Benjamin Sitta said the plan is expected to start in the year 2018, is part of the development strategies of the municipality. For starting, he said they have planned to breathing a popular village in Tandale and to build in a special modern system. This is a step of being added because that is in Kinondoni is a sign of the situation in many areas in the country. Primarily, many areas in the country are hooded and this is a result of not getting urban towns early or the absence of effective management in areas that at least be remembered for the existence of urban planning. The effects of having towns that are built in all we see. For example, areas where the map of urban planning are being targeted or because of sports grounds or holidays, school expansion or hospitals or government buildings, we have witnessed being attacked and built houses to live and others for business activities. Also, we have witnessed those who have money taking away and build houses in areas of road reserve and maybe above the water pipes and fuel. What's worse, there are some who in the nanny of money they dare to even fill the gutter that stop dirty water and thus causing a big problem to other residents as sewerage is careless especially during rains. We added that Kinondoni Municipality for a one that is supposed to be followed by other parts of the country. However, we want to ensure that this plan becomes sustainable and to organize themselves to implement its ability. We are saying that especially considering that our country has built a period of years and go back to having many plans, but only a few if it is implemented and many are threatening them in the office of executives. We have a good example of developing a park near the Kinondoni District offices. Since it was announced that the area will be improved and have a unique attraction several years ago, until now nothing is going on. Outside Kinondoni, there are many examples of strategies to develop towns, but so far it is not understandable. A good example is the modern towns of Kigamboni and Luguruni. We don't believe that Mayor Sitta wants to make popularity, it should be remembered that this is a big project and if you will succeed in Kinondoni in a unique chapter in the country, therefore, it is a must for the municipality to prepare because its process will need many resources. To plan is to choose, if we have chosen to improve our towns, we must have a concrete and true commitment, in the start of our local resources. We are not aware of anywhere like every day we will have plans and strategies while depending on the extent of the support of resources especially money from donors or foreign donors. Together with that, we are saying the plan of Kinondoni Municipality, you should give us other areas in the country. Ugandans want to see better and modern towns, not Kinondoni alone, but every corner of the country. When we have organized that, the era of our areas are complete, they will have reached the day. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2684 national team
query1683 kilometer
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35163402 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The way to cut fuel in the vehicle in Dar es Salaam. They are thinking of resting their vehicles due to the huge burden on the cost of used, and especially the price of oil which is continuing to rise, while the income is not a shortage. Some can get into the temptation of buying petrol at an easy price in the streets while its quality has been reduced after retailers take them by confusing the fuel of lights and thus being dangerous to the engines. While the economic situation is rising, it is difficult for many Tanzanians, who see the government's strategy to restrict the expenditure has affected, the Mwananchi newspaper, a solution to enable you continue to use your vehicle in those environments. The experts who spoke to our writer have explained several techniques to enable the user to avoid using a lot of fuel when he is running and therefore putting costs for the cost of fuel. Walk while there is no queue "Car remains in the queue, so the vehicle will play down and therefore use a lot of fuel," said the National Institute of Transportation. Kyando said the queue is one of the biggest reasons why fuel is used in large numbers and therefore it is important for people walking while there are no traffic vehicles. He said apart from using large numbers, vehicles also use a lot of fuel in queue due to the use of air conditioning. He said it is important to shut down the air conditioning in the queue so as to protect oil, "If there is a lot of queues and vehicles have been standing, it is good to find AC and a car. If the queues is going on, don't use AC, set up screens, because in the queues using more fuel if it will leave AC if it is Shia. " Such comments were made by taxi driver in Buguruni in Dar es Salaam city, Issa Minister Burhan who is keen in using fuel to make sure he gets profit. "AC is something I'm looking very much because I use a lot of oil while standing in the queue. Air conditioning causes the engines to use a lot of energy, but if the speed is not using a lot of fuel, it's okay and if you do not call it. My benefit is due to the preservation of oil, "said Burhan who made that work for eight years now. For a long journey, use air conditioning, when it causes oil to be lost in the queues, air conditioning is important for a long journey. Engineer Kyando said that the casings are open to the wind to be flooded and there were in the past and causing a car to use a big force to go ahead, something that causes many fuel. Many drivers tend to stop screens during the long journey, believing that sleep is lost when the wind comes to the face. The drivers' habit, another reason for the loss of oil is the habit of drivers of running a vehicle at a fast speed without the reason and taking over the fuel without a order. "When you add a speed at the accelations, it is going to the procedures according to the needs of your vehicle at the same time," said Hussein Khalfan, senior director of the AMC who are agents of Nissan. He said the competitions of the competition takes a lot of fuel due to the drivers taking over the fuel for violence so as to ensure they are using a short time. "The vehicles of the competition can use a lot of fuel until the whole bank for two hours when the fuel can be used for a journey of 700 kilometers," he said and advised drivers to step down the fuel as the journey continues instead of taking over the violence. He said in the areas like you, the driver does not need to step down the fuel. The care of the vehicle Experts also said that the care of the vehicle, which is together with working on service will avoid the big use of oil. "The creator or the owner is required to do a car to check the engines every period that was outlined in a kilometer. He is supposed to change the weather because if the air did not know well, it will cause disaster to the engines because it will not have a force and if they force them to regain them, "said Engineer Kyando. Khalfan said the regular inspection helps make the vehicle stop using a lot of fuel. "Due to the engines of the vehicle using oxygen (oxygen) to burn oil, it is important to inspect oxygen sensor, air filter which can be completely surrounded by causing dirty oxygen to get into combustion Chamber (where petrol is set to produce the power of crack shaft). Clean air is very important. Kagan air cleaner, "said Khalfan. He said the old vehicles were using carctor but modern vehicles are using Fuel injector so it is good to be elected. The structure of the vehicle, the vehicle is also important in dealing with the ecause of oil, but that would happen before the owner bought it. "It is a must that the owner to consider the elections of a broad vehicle in front to avoid the wind power that causes them to use a lot of strength to go ahead," said Engineer Kyando. "It is required a vehicle when it is running the wind back then without being blocked by the car because there was blocking, they have forced it to use a big force to go ahead and therefore use a lot of fuel." The heavy cargo of cargo also causes a car to use a big force walking and therefore using a lot of fuel. He also adds to fuel until it is another reason that makes a car to use a lot of fuel without reasons. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1782 Mwanza fishing
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_40034043 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Office of the chief chemist to provide services in Arusha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by John Mhala, Arusha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 31 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The launch of the office of the chief chemist of the government in Arusha town, broke the service of testing samples and genes together with ease the availability of permits for transportation of chemicals in the northern region. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While speaking during the opening of the office of the chief chemist together with the laboratory that is located near the Mount Meru Hospital and the Office of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) Arusha Province, the chief chemist of the government, Professor Samuel Manyele said those offices will help end the challenges facing the residents of Arusha and neighboring provinces. "The aim of opening this office in the middle of that city is to be close to chemical stakeholders together with the police force for the purpose of receiving illustrations of criminal samples and TRA to pay taxes due to chemicals and the provincial hospital who have been receiving citizens who were raped by the deaths of controversy," said Professor Manyele. Director of criminal and genes, Gloria Omary said that his department is involved with criminal illustrations, social illustrations or cases of claims including the protection of the child and the validity of the child and the issues of rape and drugs. Omary said that the government has reduced the cost of testing the genes from 800,000 shillings to 100,000 shillings, and appealed to citizens with family problems especially the validity of the father and the child to use those offices so as to identify the concerned parent. The manager of the laboratory in this province, Christopher Anyango said that the office will help the provision of services to the provinces of Singida, Manyara, Kilimanjaro, Tanga and Arusha where it is close, and citizens will benefit from reducing the journey of taking samples to Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1688 bucket container
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_75910008 Kaseba and Magufuli Mi think I'm a Story. Because I think Tanzanians had never forgotten me even even when they had the leadership Leadership book There was something called down Everyone responds to us that his department is clean. For his own benefit So for Magufuli to come here with the tweet To do what he is doing to say the truth, I wanted the day Tanzanians we don't know where I went to eat I was in the dark. Let us know where we are going? Although this time we don't have Deo, but at least we create a foundation for knowing where we're going on. No one didn't have a system Any tweet It is run as true as the government Everyone is working for him And if you look forward, you'll see many people seem to have the ability in the Diaspora. Something that is seen many years of response He will be. That of the event like yesterday started this, he has not finished, he does not know what he does doing, I do not know if we haven't started a certain way, if we haven't started doing something like Twitter htt; unk, gt; the former presidents or we are now doing what we have done and other way out in five years every day you feel like we have a profit because we need some basic things for a day even if they know what they need to live in everything among them being food and otherwise stop Magufuli well. BY there are people you know when they do things like this there are little people who will be angry Due to the situation that they were used to be used but in general, the poor people are satisfied with the performance of our president john alcohol Magufuli for a little reason even if you look at the government attitude has been different from the previous period People work with dedication and for these hundred days They have seen a lot of things on both sides in terms of taxes on the side of schools in schools. There are challenges here and there but the eye comes after time We believe that things will be good. When the administration passed, we were very disappointed by entrepreneurs. We were peace And even our economy had gone down in the meantime, there is no Tanzanian is not that he desires in his match and every Tanzanian has the right to live in his country and if they violated the law of the country. Now or his status spoke that the Site or the city police find out the work of making mi say that we are supporting it means that six of the city police are looking for the work and the father of the city to look for adjustments to the father of the nation, but now we know that he is doing well because it is not good because you say that he is doing it is still bad for example as a hospital that he knew if walk there is still a performance still below.
query1779 Morogoro banking
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41026522 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A meeting about Syria continues "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. August 24, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The meeting about Syria that is known as Geneva II yesterday came into the second day in Switzerland, after a heated speech by attacking rivals during the opening of the meeting the day before yesterday, and especially about the fate of President Bashar Al-Assad. Syrian officials said that the leader will not leave power, insisting that it should be noted that it should be dealing with terrorism in that nation. According to DW, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of America, John Kerry, joined the opposition to insist on the formation of the transition government without President Assad. On the other hand, the mediator of the United Nations, Lakhdar Brahimi said they have received a sign that the concerned sides are ready to talk about issues of opening the way for aid to reach those who need them, release prisoners and stopping the fights. At the same time, the United Nations has said more than 100,000 people have been killed because of the clashes with millions. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2012 church
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_59477324 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Jembe Tido Mhando ATUA Azam TV "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Azam Media Limited company, today has announced that Tido Mhando has been appointed to be the acting Executive Director, Life Production Ltd. (UPL). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tido, is joined by Kys Torrington who is the chief executive officer of Azam Media Ltd and the popular football presenter in the country, Mhando will start his responsibilities immediately, if his main responsibility is the manufacturing and improvement of Tanzanian programs on television and radio. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mhando who has more than 40 years experience in the broadcasting and journalism profession, is a person who is known for the industry in the East African region and Worldwide worldwide. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He started working as DJ Radio Tanzania and in 1985 he joined the BBC that is in Nairobi as a journalist. Its adoption within the organization led to transferred to London in 1991 where he was appointed as the first African president to lead the Swahili language department BBC. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After returning to Tanzania, Mhando held various positions including the executive director of TBC and recently the executive director of Mwananchi Communication Limited. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking about his appointment, Mhando said; "I have a great joy to join Azam Media, there is also a big challenge that are in front of us to make it the only Telescope and radio that is quality in providing entertainment here in the country (Tanzania) and all the region of Africa." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mhando said his offices will be present at the modern building of Life Production, Tabata, Dar es Salaam. UPL is known for its quality in airing his live broadcast as the Vodacom Premier League together with other popular programs like Kwetu House and Morning Trumpet. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Also in the coming weeks, UPL will launch its new studio with the international standards that will enable Mhando to have a great capacity to create different programs with international standards in collaboration with indigenous producers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking about the appointment, British Torrington has said: "We have a great comfort to Tido join us when we are near to fulfill our first year since we start providing services, it is glad that Azam TV has been in speed and become the chief distributors and best satellite providers Pay Tv Tanzania." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "In his experience, I hope that Tido will take the responsibility of putting it into another successful step by making programs and different entertainment to our customers in Tanzania and crossing our borders. And you will be good in his new responsibilities, "he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_63303194 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The construction of a new railway is being faced with a conflict in the construction of the new Standard Guage Railway (SGR) in the area of Kibthieves West has been faced with a conflict after the residents against capacity building. The meeting of Tuesday between the Kenya Railways Corporation (KRC) and the residents about the railway that will prevent them from the Italian market, it emerged after the residents got a session against the capacity building of that bridge. Instead they wanted to be built on the road or under the railway that will enable them to take the livestock in the water well near and also vehicles. However, through the deputy manager of that project of SGR Mister Tobias OUT, KRC said, will not be possible that the residents can be built on the road they want. According to that officer, KRC managed to use the concerned land to build a radio station for the rest of the smoke that is expected to grow up to "a big center." Pius MARRY and VER NThais "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_82600315 Gender violence still uncertainty Nov 28, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On November 25, this year, we started 16 days of opposing gender violence. 16 days of opposing gender violence is an international campaign that started at the first meeting of the Women's Global Leadership Institute (Women's Global Leadership Institute), sponsored by the Association of Women's Global Leadership Center (Center for Women's Global Leadership), in 1991. Participants chose on November 25, International Day Against Women Against Women, and December 10, World Human Rights Day, in order to involve violence against women and human rights as well as encouraging that violence as violation of human rights. The 16-Day period is also looking for another important Day, including November 29, which is the Day for Human Rights Defenders, December first, World AIDS Day and December 6, a Memorial for Montreal. Violence against women is a violation of human rights, it's a humanitarian crisis in society and a barrier to reach equality, development, security and peace. The words "violence against women" and "gender violence" are used to meaning the sequence of violence taking place against women, resulting from lack of gender equality and the minimum of women in society compared to men. In 1993, the United Nations Declaration on eradicate violence against women as: "Any act of sexual violence that causes or can cause pain or physical abuse, sexual or mental pain for women, including threats, forced or being denied freedom taking place in the community or in personal life." It is estimated that one of the three women in the world will face certain types of gender violence in his life. Therefore it is very clear that against gender violence is women, although it is not a must that this violence is done by the only men. The goal of these 16 days is against gender violence, but many days have been taken to protest against violence against women. And a limited view is violence by men to women. But the real situation and events of the day and especially here in Tanzania show very different, to the extent of making gender violence to be a uncertainty. Even if you look at the international human rights contracts and the resolutions reached within the United Nations to deal with violence against women and that need the government to take action against women, including the agreement to eradicate types of crimes against women (CEDAW, 1979), the agreement to eradicate violence against women, including the agreement to eradicate drugs against women (CEDAW, 1979), an agreement to eradicate violence against women, including the agreement to eradicate those groups of women, peace and security (2000) and other others. A big wave of oppress the domestic workers that a big percentage are girls that makes a lot of a t-shirt the whole concept of gender violence. Harassment is largely implemented by women. Although at some point, these domestic workers are oppressed and sexually assaulted by men, like sexually harassing or selling small houses, but severe pain against their personality and their freedom are loved by women. But, in a certain amount is run by women. Those who bring young girls in one place and especially in big towns and using them sexually, it is a certain kind of culture in Mara province, where women are married with the aim of having girls using them sexually and earning children. This culture is known as Nyumbantobu. In this culture, a girl who is married to a woman, has no freedom of any kind and his body or with the children that he is doing. This is the type of gender violence, who although they are being treated for women, but not the violence of men. "The number of men arriving at the police station complaining of being beaten and their wives began growing rapidly in Dar es Salaam city," that was said by the acting police officer, Adolphina Chialo, when he was speaking at a meeting of the commemoration of 16 days of opposing gender violence, coordinated by women organization in law and development (WiLDAF). The research that was done on November 22, this year, at the Mercy Club in Dar es Salaam, has increased in the darkness of the issue of gender violence. Six women who work in the bar had different opinions and against gender violence. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_19221172 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Lenovo has given education to stakeholders about new technology products used in the market as mentioning the big companies in the world of technological products like computer and phone you cannot stop mentioning the Lenovo headquarters in Beijing, China which by recognizing the importance of its customers to know the quality of their products they have decided to do a one-day seminar so as to provide education about the products of that company. Speaking to Mo Blog about the one-day seminar, the Executive Director of Lenovo East and Central Africa, David Celeb said the seminar has involved various technology stakeholders and the aim of the seminar is to identify their new products to Tanzanians which are of the highest technology than the previous years. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that for now Lenovo is doing well in the market of other East African countries and now they want to put power in Tanzania so as to get a big market for their products in the country so that Tanzanians should start using their products that are made in great and modern quality. "We are involved with various issues that are about technology and today we have been here to provide education to stakeholders and our customers about new technology systems that we use in our products, we have involved different types of stakeholders from banks, companies to sell technology products and producers," we are doing this so as to enable Lenovo to promote his market, and now we have new systems that are good for our customers, the aim we want to have a big and reliable market in Tanzania, we are strong in Kenya, Uganda and Ethiopia now we want to build our name Tanzania, "said Caleb. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_26934393 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The employment project will need more amendments to the year yesterday the Federation of Employers in Kenya (Fbake) which marks that many of the students who graduate from degree courses in universities can't work that they are employed. In the next two months more than 30,000 youths who have graduated from a degree and have not succeeded in getting employment, they will have a reason to Smile because the government will give them an opportunity to get interest needed according to the professions they studied. This is a test project run by the State House for five years in an effort to enable the youth to get the job opportunities that these days and Leonard ONYANT is rare and even maintain the national anthem. Likewise, many of them will be sent to care in primary schools across the country where they will receive a total of 6,000 shillings each month. Although this plan has a good intention to prepare the youth for the employment market and even to make the youth be patriotic, there are many that deserve to be done so as to ensure that it is successful. First, it is unacceptable to someone of a degree of degree teaching students of primary school because he does not have any training about the more way he is able to destroy the children of those children and that is why the teachers of secondary and primary schools are getting training in different colleges. Despite the number of teachers will rise in primary schools, there will be no quality of education required. These teachers were taken to secondary schools because they are facing a shortage of teachers. The chances of learning for volunteering in primary schools under the new government plan is to be released to Kenyans who have graduated from universities for teaching primary schools (TTC). There are many youths who have graduated in the second, a payment that has been recommended for Short is very little that they are not enough for the teachers who have volunteered to survive. Many of the students who graduated from universities got funding from Masomo Loans Board (Helb). Are those funds enough to pay a house, pay Helb and buy other needs of primarily to survive, especially this time when the cost of life has risen? That amount deserves an increase in order to give the motivation to these boys between the age of 22 and 30 who would like to get interest under this new plan. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_75899379 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He is back in the country contrary to the law given in custody and Benson MATRIED a foreign citizen who was accused of returning to the country contrary to the law after being returned to their home last year, he will stay in custody until his case should be decided and decided. The resident magistrate of Kibera, Mister Charles Oveki praised Mohamed Dounave bail saying he is a person that is not in the country. "Your request for bail has been rejected. The prosecution has confirmed that the suspect is a person that is not in the country because he was removed from the government, "said Mister Overeki. He added that the citizenship of the suspect is unknown because he owns the newspapers of different countries. "The citizenship of the suspect and even his names is a violation of the fact because there are their newspapers have different names," said Mister Overeki. He said on bail it is to put the security of the country in danger because the activities of the suspect in the country have not been found. Opposing the bail, the police said that Dukoure owns the newspapers of Burundi, Congo and Guinea and that he was removed from the country following the directive by the Ministry of Internal Security on June 10, 2013. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_61705782 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Listen to me, the secret I know as Mussa Juma, Mwananchi mjuma @ scientanchi.co.z Alphonce Simbu, was not known, but after holding the fifth position in the Marathon in the Olympic Games of Rio de Janeiro 2016, then its popularity began to hold momentum. That was August. Five months later, that is January this, he won the Mumbai Standard Chartered Marathon race, the competition that brought together 37,000 athletes and among them, 32 were officially invited to the world standards, participating in the international competition. Simbu did not care for the athletes from Kenya and Ethiopia and other parts of the world, ran away and spent 2: 09: 32 only leaves the championship of Kenyans, in the international race. Dr. Mikiki spoke to Simbu's wife, Rehema Daudi 22, explaining what the secret of her husband's success in the race. The question: I understand that Alphonce Simbu is a mumeo, and he has been working with the athletics, he started to be heard more in the 2016 Olympic Games, what is the secret of success? Rehema: My husband's secrets do well in his tournament, is his discipline in exercise. Simbu likes to do exercises with everything that he has been told by his coaches, he has been doing a lot of practice and I'm grateful that she is crying. There is nothing else for his success is exercise. Question: But often women are restrictions, that celebrities are found in training at the training, how is this? Rehema: (He gets a bit) no, I don't say... Simbu is very free and the fact I know his practice schedule, he is going to the training and coming from the exercises he returns home, he rest. That's about caring about his fitness schedule allows me to do well. Question: His life is in general, what others do like the life to conform with their achievements, how do you think this? Rehema: The truth, as well as doing well, Simbu is living a normal life, my husband in fact I'm grateful she has no headquarters, living a very common man. The question: Usually, he wishes to eat very much food? Rehema: Simbu likes a lot of maize and stones. They tend to catch up and sometimes with fruit. He does not have a lot of things about his health, not a person of meat or beer, the truth is a lot of food. The question: Apart from the Olympics in the fifth position, how did it happen when it was said Simbu won Mumbai Marathon? Rehema: I was very happy since I like athletics. I remember when I was at the primary school I fled the athletics. I like athletics even this child would like to stop and be a good scientist. The question: I know the winner of Mumbai Marathon is getting a gift of 42,000 dollars more than 90million shillings, if today this is the burden of this burden here, will they do it? Rehema: (He is eka...) really! I don't know... but if he is getting us to improve our lives and especially our house we are building, but aah, I can't know what we will do because he has not been handed over but first I think it is improving our house and business since I was doing the business of a salon. After an interview with his wife, spill Mikiki spoke to Simbu in relation to the competition and says Mumbai Marathon, is the biggest and popular Asia and on the level of the International Athletics Federation and that those races have Silver's second largest group. Speaking in a special interview at his home in Ngateu district in Arumeru District, Arusha Province, Simbu says it was not an easy job of defeating the athletes of Kenya and Ethiopia. He says Kenyans were being led by a prominent blogger, Kosua Kiplir who held the second position by using 2: 09: 58, followed by another blogger Eliud Bargetuny who spent 2: 11: 39 and the fourth place was buried by Kenyan Jacob Chesar who spent 2: 11: 36 and holding a fifth position. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_67715142 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Every goal is Serengeti 1 million. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 20 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye has congratulated the national team of youths under the age of 17, Serengeti Boys by winning the home game to qualify for the African Cup of Africa against Congo Brazzaville, promising to buy every 1 million shillings in the repeat game. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Previously, before that game, the minister gave 200,000 shillings to every player of Serengeti as motivation and promised Serengeti, if they marry Congo in that game, then every goal will be paid 500,000 shillings a promise he implemented the other day after that game. In that game that was played at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam the day before yesterday, Serengeti emerged with a victory of 3-2 goals against Congo Brazzaville, it won a total of 1.5 million shillings in three goals that they scored. "I commend Serengeti Boys who has done justice for Tanzania by winning the home match, we have faith that they will do well, in the final game of away," he said and added that the government will continue to support them. Still, that team has a journey to play the final game of away after two weeks, whereby if it will succeed to score that team will qualify to participate in the tournament that will take place in Madagascar next year. Nnauye said that Serengeti has struggled with his ability because the teams that they meet is good and promised to pray for them so as to do better in the next game. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_18327587 When I went on, I don't know if it is merely inside now Think about dere has been told to have decided to take the bonanza milk. Madhe mym ati msee I'm above her now He is working even where maybe he has thrown out in order to tell them not to tell them. Twitter lt; hes tgt; there are other things that there are four branches So we've uploaded the investigation by the police When you would go to Graham to investigate Amazon a child AHH Next Week I'm in the ground now mi is in charge of the investigation now by mym The first one is the best to put that Area there must be a transline.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58634317 He didn't have all the evidence agreed, he said that he is still in prison that has no life or the big one still claims to pay When I go, well, to the Save to help me not you know the big one had not taken inside I was a Christian in prison. No today he was married Apparently, he said outside these hours he is following because the evidence is called s _ m no you know Mym yes. You know that you don't have a pastor that is the goalkeeper. It's not supposed to be blamed, you know he said he cannot blame him when you are doing his own work, he is also a goalkeeper. He paid her or checked it was scared.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25371180 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Parents worry about the safety of their children in dormitories and tell us "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Parents have expressed concerns about the safety of their children who have reported in dormitories at the time of the teachers' strike when it comes to the fourth day. Through the parents party in KNAP, parents want the government to ensure that those students who came to dormitories and others are protected as required. The secretary general of that party, Mister Musau Ndunda, said that parents have a lot of fear that perhaps the children who are in schools this time where there are no teachers, they faced the effects of every kind if the government will not be responsible and give enough protection. "We are urging the Ministry of Education to be fast and to conduct inspections in all high school schools so as to ensure that the chief teachers are there. It is this one that will assure our children safety, "said Mister Ndunda when he spoke to the nation today through phone yesterday. Parents also fear that the students who are alone in school are starting to get into the movements that it should not be moral. Miss Evelyne Magige, who is a parent of a student at the high school of the school. I was one of the parents who wanted the government to make everything that they want to protect students who are in the dormitories and they have not been returned home. "I hope that this strike would end quickly because I took my daughter to a dormitory. Now I am not sure that he is taking care of the school or if he is in safe hands or not, "he said. On his part, Miss Patron Oduor says he didn't take her daughter to school yesterday because of fear of his safety. "I suspect that he will not be safe in school without adequate supervision from teachers. I decided to continue staying at home until things will be safe and the teachers finish their strike, "said yesterday when he spoke to the nation today. The parents also said they are threatened by the system of teachers and officials of the teachers who are on strike, who enter into the school to evict students and teachers who were able to strike and who are continuing with studies. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_66800517 Children look at a level of starting from foreign money in some of the shops in the city of the city of the city of Dar es Salaam, when I was able to visit America, they were able to make two ninety minutes and sell them in methods that predicted he has died by a guardian as a tractor of the tractor. The problem can be two hundred thousand shillings. It's about to make it born but three of them fail again to Clinic Fredrick Other things are, like your appearance to jump And this is a tree for the reason
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_81055641 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. By our writer, Dar es Salaam despite the presence of women in the aviation industry to be small, the ability to be leaders in air travel is no taboo. Speaking to this newspaper, the first woman to lead a plane of Airbus A380 owned by Fastjet Tanzania, pilot Anne-Marie Lewis says women in Africa should not fear being part of this growing sector in the continent. He says it is not a hard work for a woman to be the pilot and that he is confident and he has no fear in any matter that is why he is trusted and got an opportunity to wait for that plane in the provinces of Tanzania and other neighboring countries. "Women should understand that there is no type of work that is meant for men alone, but women will bring in the air travel sector their ability to work hard, raising their skills of better supervision," he says. According to Lewis, African women need to understand that their intentions and decision will remove fear or economic losses. He says that their ability to do anything, where they will put their thoughts on what they want to do will be the inspiration of their goals. He notes that he started down completely but his intention to get into this field that was dominated by men and for the regular help from his father was the foundation of the success that he has got until now. Many youths in Africa can think that they are a non-profit group, but they should be happy because they are in the modern life of digital life thus they can use to learn anything they want. Pilot Lewis says women need to overcome poverty is faced with many challenges, this is because they seem to be people to sit and wait for their husbands. "In order to succeed, women are required to be like them... they bring a unique reputation in any position because they are attentive, caregivers and they have a great skills to organize things," he says and added that interest, inspiration and enthusiasm forever provides better, also a foundation of success. In addition, Lewis calls for her father saying; "my father knew he was supposed to lead for example, to show us that in order to succeed it needs to work hard and intentions." He adds that their father insisted on all girls about the importance of education because it is the way to be independent economically. "African women have the ability to work in any Area of the air industry. As I like the pilot, I would like to see more female pilots in Tanzania, who will be giving training to the pilots who are defending them. "They bring change in the air sectors as well as those in western women who brought changes in the aviation sector in their continent," he summarizes. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53608715 Kiganja wants TFF to change "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. January 13, 2017 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The secretary general of the National Sports Council (BMT) has wanted the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to change and stop using a lot of time to discuss the issues of the coach they left instead of discussing how they can help the development of Tanzanian soccer. That issue has been troubled by many stakeholders because the officials of that federation have been discussing the salary issues of the former coach of the Taifa stars Charles Mkwasa instead of knowing the plans they have through the interim coach to take the national team. He said that TFF should stop continuing to discuss the news of the coach who was left and instead he has urged them to focus on the right way of running the Tanzanian soccer and eventually doing well at the international levels. He said that many leaders have been running things in practice and find themselves working on the sidelines, the situation that makes Tanzania soccer to be lower as the days will continue to move forward. "I don't see if there is a need to call the media and feel to pay the coach because there is no benefit in the sports world because there is no benefit in the sports world because there is nothing they can learn under football leaders more than to continue to promote conflicts," said Kiganja. On his side, Lucas Mponela said that TFF has been the best to talk about Mkwasa's salary and to stop the important issues of conflicts of players and finding a solution to the problem that bothers them. He said there are many charges that had been taken by different clubs and complain about their rights but TFF have been fired without working on their grievances and find problems every day due to following their rights for a long time. He added that the issue of paying the salary Mkwasa was a secret of two sides, therefore there was no reason for TFF to put open those issues, something that showed losing time in doing so many basic issues. Mkwasa was sentenced to his contract with TFF a few days ago with his contract with his contract with a period of three months to train the national team and his position was taken by the interim coach, Salum Mayanga who has already started his work. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_16980186 The reason I asked Mrema, we have accepted himself there and my leg there and the words with the mind that how someone has heard to tell me that the woman himself is asking for a white woman that aims at getting to pass it or don't like it becomes a problem when you give you a good example you don't see you remain here and this is the Network from there. Step Indeed You don't have people to look for Free will like the children we cannot go to oil and talk about it doesn't have problems to talk about you, you know that people know and then tell you for news like the fire is a secret that he has never done anyone to know that the socialism will be a journey, I think the rights of God, that is the same evening in the real time that mi naskia is living in a high time from the father is full but when they had problems. Ohh things I win eight times in fact, I know you are the doctor in the same way you have his own problems and it's really a person sitting here, they started well. Mi certainly didn't hide it Truly the Proposal I end by saying what happened. Accidents lead you an explosion. Selling and selling They went down Mi maybe it is BoT Sipati sleep Mym but I know because the importance I have received as a drett, we are going to be found, you know a lot of people who will speak up to say the need. You will not be lost, many people whose men are unable to show their soul in the country but by giving my opinion on my Image that is going on to be completed then it does not have a problem every you know, that is, that is to kill _ it has also been a need for a long time, he said I was sitting in, Fatma and brought a few from my heart and how you use it. In Mombasa where there is certain leaves But mi lock stretched up, we accept that it will not accept what to do even those who did not be found in the news of some of my body, while you are the good people. You hear your second brother to hear and I have accepted that early I have heard very well and I have accepted it and I have agreed that I have not got but just say it was because maybe we're not seeing the policy to call me it was doing no problem according to the Kiba that is required to be given that we didn't just see Uganda to say that it was doing. Have hit me and find out that I would have died to call a long time I wrote to the channels you'll go. Sleep babes and give me a habit of behavior and therefore for reasons Take them then and the issues of you know how the budget depends on the machines. A good mother and now mi I won't tell you about my tweets, I'm talking about my romantic treatment so that he should say that God is when I know it is very bad in those places where all the time you came to me, I know it's always a patient and it's a stupid things that doesn't have a bond at all time I was telling me to stay with me in my heart to tell me that you are sent to me to tell me that you are sent to me to tell me that you have blood. Let's stop weakness and arguments Do not be a whole person and my Mboni is in line, you feel ridiculous things I would have been laughing at that he has been a meaning and just a game answer. Wema Sepetu
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_38770880 Swine flu in Uganda have requested the government to help control the chronic flu virus. Taking off in the district where approximately five hundred pigs He has been reported to die during the past few weeks According to news from the district Some of the breeders and have fled the government's silence in handling the disease, claims that they have not been shaken by the health commissioner From Christopher buke bwrites These are for the interests of pigs in Uganda were reported to eruption in the district and caused a huge loss to breeders
query1975 marijuana
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_56656859 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The support needed Baringo after the residents escaping WYCLIFF with Florah KOECH Commissioner of Rift Valley, Osman Warfa addresses the citizens at a security meeting at the Chemolingot area, Baringo on November 17, 2014. Photos / Jared Nyalandu, a humanitarian aid is needed for emergencies in the areas of Baringo North and Baringo, after more than 4,000 people leave their homes for fear being attacked by the thieves of livestock. In the area of Baringo South, the quickest families have been seeking refuge in various schools where they live in poor environments. "We're worried that it may have been Food for diseases following the killings of people in classes. Victims have no blankets to hide, food and nets to prevent mosquitoes. Pregnant women and children are the ones that were affected more, "said John Wendot, an elder of the village. Reports that have not been confirmed that some of the pregnant women were given birth in the poor environment. The representative of Baringo's county, Grace Kiptui who visited the quickest families gave food aid to those predicted. "It's sad that when Kenyans were celebrating Christmas, our people were sleeping in the forests and in evil environments. It is worth mentioning the challenge of lack of security immediately, "said Ms Kiptui. The conflict between the Tunisian communities and Palestinians have erupted again following the murder of former KDF from the Pokot community who is believed to be executed by the assassination of Tugen. Peter Kokon was marched with her child before being shot by the assassination that had killed her on the way and burned his car. The former KDF officer was driving a car from his home in the Mochled area before being attacked by the livestock thieves that have been hanging to the residents of Baringo. The Bokot community has threatened to revenge following the murder of the former soldier. The threats have made hundreds of locals of the area to relocate their homes and instead go to the school. More than 20 schools may not be decided today for the first term this year after parents leave their children. Some schools that have been affected in Baringo North is Chepkewel, Kalabata, Yates, Sibilo, Kapturo and Chemindany. The other is Tilingwo, Kagir, Ng'aratuko, Kosile, Rormoch, Chepisin, Kamwetio, Chepkew, Barkett and Moinonin. They are in Baringo, South Africa is Arabal, Rohus, Kashiela, Chebinyiny, Chocokyon, Ng'elela and Kapindasum. Some schools also need to be restored after it was revealed that the attackers bought equipment such as iron sheets and solar machines in those schools. Those attackers have now started to burn houses that have been left with victims and destroy their properties that are remaining. The member of parliament for Baringo North William Choice has wanted the government to increase the number of savings in Chemoe villages, threatened, Kagir, Ng'aratuko and Loruk to strengthen security. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88724915 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Friday, September 12, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Possible things to attract a man on their wives - 2 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We saw in the previous article that a man needs a lot of recognition. You have no reason to tell the man you love her. The language of love that he is understood is to be commended. In line with this first, we saw a man she has a hungry man. Respect is to tell him even when he is in the face of language, words and behavior. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Photo: Citifmonline.com "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In this article, we end up another four qualifications which he needed a man for his month which is basically the needs he will expect for a month. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. She needs freedom, privacy "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Freedom and privacy is certainly the opposite of what women need as we will see in the future. But for a man, the truth is that he needs to feel a person with freedom to do things that he is happy without being told another of the differences should do. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For example, if your husband loves the ball, the truth is that he desires for the cooperation. It is able to try to enjoy the ball will highlight his heart in a different way. Whatever he wouldn't want to make your husband during his extra time, he has Never been given a chance to be with him without showing him except when it is a must. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. If he has the things that we love and do not destroy your life, join him. It is possible, he has Never been freedom of loving his things. You don't have a reason, for example, to make him stop with his friends if they do not affect your relationship. You have no reason to make him stop going to the areas that he would like to do so doesn't bring harm. Never have a chance to be Independent. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Likewise, freedom goes hand in hand with requiring privacy. Basically, if a woman, sometimes you desire to understand everything he is doing in your husband. You need to know his communication, he has talked to who, he has divorced and who has known him and if possible to know every point of his thoughts. Maybe you can even be convinced to investigate in secret. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, for many men, this is not funny. Men are peaceful to have a chance to do their things without being investigated. They don't like to see how they were done to be private. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. If you are interested to have a relationship that has come up in the foundation of trust, do not believe in order for his will to allow him to interfere with his private life. As he thinks that he is able to hand over freedom you want you without bringing the conflict. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A individuals who are impressed by the body "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Although human beings have a selfishness in the origin, but the selfishness of a man continues to be a woman. But the men feel More aware of him and his needs. Sometimes even in the times that you think about himself, it is easy for a man to put him. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This kind of disappointing himself first, has a relationship with his own. God has set up a man in his eyes. Greed is emphasized on a man's knowledge, normally, selfishness is born. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Except in the environment that a man has changed his soul, he says he loves you often thinking about his physical needs. He is thinking about your physical qualifications that can meet its greed. This is a difference to women. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. If you want to convince a man, ensure it continues to attract physically. Consciousness is impressed and you want to place in the way he is expecting. The big offence makes many women forget when they get married. When you hear of them as much as it was before marriage, you trigger a man's selfish. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Don't make sense. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. As a continuation of the authority we saw as an epicenter, a normal man wants to feel that he is still needed. A man wishes to feel that things are not going on without him. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The men are growing up by the community, age friends and sometimes through their own father's actions that they will be able to reduce problems. And how does this belief in the mind of a man's mind, we say a man believes is a maid of the problems we don't know in the authenticity. The man likes to be the answer to all things. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Any attempt to show a man that even if you do not have anything, even if you do not give any idea, there is nothing that will make him make 'sabotage' relationships. To make sense, there is affecting its own stance (ego) and may be the beginning of the problems. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Even if it is true that you get income, you need wisdom, you want to understand, learn that under him and trust him to be needed. When a man knows that he is needed to love. Don't. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He does not like to be changed "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Every human being does not like to feel there is someone where he has a plan to change. Many times when we feel we are transformed, we are heard to lie. As a defensive effort, often the relationship with that is trying to change the affected. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For a man, a feeling of feeling when a partner wants to change is very big. For a man it is a criminal offence when he discovered there is his folks. When a man is aware you changed us, he sees himself as a person who lost his authority. He didn't accept it easily. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is true that there are things that you think is important to change. For example, friends pointed out his time that he could use it with the family, maybe he does not have inspiration and faith, maybe it is the work he does or certain behaviors. I tried to show the interest in changing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. If you want a man to uate what you want to do, you agree as he is and know that it has come without conditions. To be accepted is the motivation of changing. That's the rules. When your husband knows together with his weaknesses, he has accepted that he is, changing is a period of time. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Twitter: @ bnovel "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is written and "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Christian Bwawani "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1719 back anatomy
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_72209313 In the games of sports and entertainment today, Tanzania has risen by ten positions up to the quality standards of the international federation. Football in the world FIFA which has been released According to the last month's standards, Tanzania was one hundred and nine positions I am now waiting to reach one twenty-seventh position Being secure two hundred and three hundred thousand compared to ten tribes in the month. And the coast or cote d ivoire It is in the place where we call in the world to plug it is still leading in the African side followed by Ghana thy and Libya as well as property. South African champion Sunday to set six positions followed by Egypt Tunisia and ten indicate that In the fake zone in the world champions, Uganda is leading by Sudan which is the second Not three hundred, followed by Kenya Rwanda and six hundred thousand.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_28354535 Education cover the national image, the identity of its people Feb 05, 2015 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I have given an example of how the families of the critics are determined to invest in their children's education. Even if it is a family that brought together the father and mother who loved a luxury in their first youth (before they give birth) the couple will not change when they are faced with the issue of raising their children and give them everything that will assure them good upbringing and life of efficiency. This means that they will make sure that children get a good place to get to the right, clean housing, good accommodation, food and adequate nutrition, the protection of the disease, testing of their health frequently, and the quality of behavior that will enable them to be good in their lives. Then, education. Education is together with the good upbringing that they are getting children in their home, in the community that they left, in the village or street and also in school. The school has been an agent of the family and the community of the village or estate in the activities of developing a child education where parents can't go forward in the borders of the family and the village community or the street cannot be advanced in its borders. Parents and family members are fulfilling their responsibility until their limit. The community of the village and street communities are fulfilling their responsibilities until they are studying, and the child is going to school where the responsibility of the continuation of education and child care is received by the teachers and other servants of that institution of education. From the family, village, street to school and college, all of this is a continuation of the main activity of bringing and creating a community community who will be beneficial to him, for his family, in his village or its neighborhood, and for the whole nation and even a wide range of international community and the whole world. That is how they found teachers with qualifications, they are hically, public servants who have improved, leaders who leave their points in the community, the defending of every good thing by opponents of all the evil in the world. They all take a look at the steps I've seen above. If you read biographical (stories of life) of people like Mafate Gandhi, Jawaharlal Neil, Julius Nyerere, Nelson Mandela, Martin Luther King Jr and others, we get an image of the people who were exposed through all the steps to reach their youth of good work in the world. The most important is that they were taken care of the care of justice, equality and dignity. Their actions with young people have shown the qualifications that were caused by the way they were coming from childhood. (By who wants to follow this, there are many biographical books here in the country and in neighboring countries, Europe, the United States and Asia that show how senior leaders were raised and educated. Now here in the country, it is found in the book of a youth at edinburgh University, Thomas Molony, who writes about the life of childhood and youth of Julius Nyerere: Nyerere, the Every years. Molony is getting into a more sensitive environment that grew up Nyerere, a culture that brought up, training from mother and other family members, the content of his initial education, and later in secondary school, and also to the University of edinburgh, Uskochi. Parents, close relatives, the village of the village, the teachers who met with them in school and in colleges, both were one of the knowledge, skills, education, and not stole them in Kambarage and became the same to his death). Contrary, you are visible from the qualifications that are contrary to those that I mentioned by. Many children who were born and tortured in the families of thieves and who were not lucky to get tired of the village communities or the street, they are crying in theft and finally, they will be big thieves, criminals and corrupt, because that is the knowledge they got, and that is the education they got. Silika of theft will make it sometimes to be his own assets if he has lost a person to marry him. The same for a child who is born and raised in the environment of conflict and conflicts in the family or street and in the village. Wherever he is and the fight will go, and without a fight he will make it. When we say that a child can't know, that's what it means. There are true stories of human children being raised by animals like fox and babe, and they were found with the behavior of those guardians. So it is very important for the upbringing of the children of any nation prepared, supervised, coordinated and controlled so that it can be possible for education and training, behavior and behavior of the people of this nation to conform to and those that are not big so that the country should not have a strong character. I've got to ask, and until now I ask: This is what is introducing the national football of Tanzania? It's hospitality? 'It's gentle.' He's a weak defense? Is it credibility and truth? What is the quality of education for our children? Is it patriotism that makes love for the country and its people? Is it the defense of the weak and hatred against injustice and oppression? Or is the violence to the weak? Is it lies, fraud, tension, tension and hypocrisy? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_73038158 Now we are putting aside in order to continue with the next future Here there is an answer that we will put a long time while this is for the purpose of creating an egg which we will go to put in the rest of those who were already cooking ready, so it depends on if another and rice you know it's not enough to ask for the game, it also has a problem you can also be able to wait for a few quarters of our food is ready to wait for a bit of fuel. Ehr And And Even a little in my life check. Here I have eggs When oil gets hot, I'll have these eggs but six of the violence This is our life that is devastating here but it is an act of chaos in a long time, there is a reason to do so because we still want this one to be able to download it because it is the cause of it, we have to sell a bit of salt in making it waiting for the fuel. My lover, I wonder if you don't know that twenty years we will change it or confusing when I am on the line of an essay that we have made it to come out as we put in our book where we have already put an egg which has said to be tourism to repeat one year in my book. We have our language Twitter lt; unk, gt; In the world for the sake of cooking or delay the people of the African continent, especially the Chinese are often Chinese to love to put an egg on their foods and because of cooking, we know that we have a good relationship between Tanzania and Tanzania and therefore the aim of putting victory also in showing that the good relationship then even the Tanzanians can arrive in the office. Us is ready to keep on the side And then we will continue to cry. Here, we will write a pot that could not be given to the sake of the food so that we don't know. We will put oil Our teachers, our teachers was over, therefore, if we say that we are not a game that our food had already been made, but now not wanting we go a frying to be able to get this one that we had just thought or capital We are waiting for fuel that go on when the fuel is looking at as we have all hours that we need for our lives.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_82322982 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Edward Lowassa: CCM means you "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. January 13, 2017 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The former prime minister and member of the executive committee of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Edward Lowassa, has said that the improvement of unity and solidarity among the opposition parties in the country give you the Revolutionary Party (CCM) who are leading the government and to start their dirty tactics. Lowassa said that yesterday at the Gaprina Hotel, Kahama town, Shinyanga province where he reached his way to Kagera province on a tour to strengthen the party. He said the improvement of the solidarity under the party of the parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) is a big step in the journey to remove CCM from power and enter the State House so that they can lead the dollar. "They have started dirty tactics to tell us from our union by feeding our leaders... there is one newspaper that annulates the words claiming that I have won a victory in the parliamentary elections in Arumeru district. "These are incredible things, this newspaper (not summer), is living in our taxes, today it is used to break this democracy is very sad," insisted Lowassa who in the trip accompanied by the Deputy Secretary General of CHADEMA Zanzibar, Salum Mwalimu. He added that; "they write a lie on the afternoon that I was in a campaign in Ematic,... I didn't go, the tactics they are undertaking, they are not ready to see their desire to change when it is lost," he said. Lowassa who came from Zanzibar where he went to participate in the launch of the minor elections campaign of the parliamentary seat of Dfaith that supports the CUF candidate, he said the opposition parties have great solidarity and urged their members to follow that example. "In a tour we are doing to strengthen the party, we also strengthen the solidarity among the opponents... CCM are getting you, we are telling them that they should do not be inevitable, they will encourage our leaders for a mistake but to know that it is the wind, this is the wind that is sent all over the world, learn from the Gambia, Ghana and elsewhere," he insisted. In another step, hundreds of residents of Kahama Town protested the hotel where Lowassa wanted to see where the news of his presence started to spread on Wednesday evening where yesterday morning the citizens arrived at the hotel. While on his way to Bukoba, Lowassa and his convoy got an opportunity to greet the citizens at the Lusahunga auction in Biharamulo district where citizens told them that their lives of life is hard, they are also facing drought. However, Lowassa did not speak anything more than banning and greet them saying the public meetings have been banned and would not like to break the law and that order. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3290 desk furniture
query480 gun
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_64528237 Yanga, have not received the secretary that suit them? Dec 04, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There is a time I had to say through one of my newspaper in this newspaper that, so as to be a leader in the Simba and Yanga clubs, you need to have certain behaviors. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I see some of those behaviors such as a whip and a person to give numerous promises when you want to contest for various positions, even if you see that there is no friendly environment for enable you to implement those promises. But it should also be a person to withstand conflicts and violence in the country and there from the members of those clubs. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This situation was there in those old clubs, there is now and will continue to be there if the whole system of leading Simba and Yanga will not change. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The big problem in these clubs is leaning towards the decision that has often been done by members, or through the sessions and official meetings or informal meetings. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There is a time it seems that some of the members of these clubs are there for their interests and not for the interests of those clubs. For example, it has been a group of groups in these clubs whose days come up during conflicts and not during the development plans. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This system of these clubs who have been nominated, there is a possibility of taking them to the clubs more than here in the country. History shows that Simba and Yanga clubs have been blamed for a long time in the premier league and to show jokes that has caused those teams to have many lovers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There is no foundation that took place on the side of investment in the soccer of this country more than different leaders who have been getting into power to have ghost plans. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Perhaps this may be allocated by some of the members of those clubs with ideas of looking closely and not far. The majority of these clubs are raising regular disputes from members to the leadership. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. At the end of the week there were reports of the former secretary general of Yanga, Beno Njovu to release the level, but more reports say that he has finished his term, according to the contract he had with that club. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There is no one who refused that Njovu has not finished his term, but the way he used to release the stairs for the announcement through the media is the ones that they were in. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Njovu, who came to power in January this year, taking the position of Lawrence Mwalukasa, has been leaving office in that style that he received Mwalukasa. For Now accounts, Yanga has made changes to three secretaries within 15 months. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Before Mwalukasa was there, Celestine Mwesigwa, who is currently the secretary general of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF). Yanga has also ever brought the secretary general from Kenya, Patrick Nagi, the elders of Yanga accused him because he is not a member of Yanga. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We are back there that some members have a decision without knowing what it means. They have forgotten that that is an opportunity to be employed and neither the position of members to vote as they do with the chairman and other leaders. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The secretary is a key leader in any institution. He is a leader who is supposed to be responsible in broad in his institution. This means that he is responsible for a long-term plans and for a short time. As I had previously said previously, which has ruled the ball in our big club are members who sometimes fail to recognize their positions. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. At the same time, the secretaries were elected, they were sitting in power for a long time. And after the secretary came to power he was trying to create a certain group that if there will be any problem to be ready to defend him. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. These days have changed after those positions are being announced and people are employed by their professional qualifications. There are several things to consider for at least the secretaries who are employed in these clubs to be able to sit for a long time so as to implement the plans they made for the sake of development. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. What is seen for now the position of the secretary for Simba club and Yanga is as the registration of a player. It means that the leadership can build a difficult environment due to personal reasons he hate his employment and he decided to release his level. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. As it is for some of the leaders to intervene in the office of their coaches in various decisions including registration, that is how it is for the leaders to interfere with the responsibilities of their secretaries. The current secretaries for our old clubs have turned out to be the departments, because of the leadership of the club wanting to do everything. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In this ongoing situation in the Yanga club to change the secretaries, it is a must for members and leaders to look at afresh while knowing that the problem is in that club. If not to the members is for leadership. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There is a certain disorder to some people wanting what they are saying without being opposed. But for the position of the secretary general, he is supposed to be given a chance to do his work without interference without the basic reasons. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Perhaps Yanga were supposed to be hopeful for depending on this style of making a look for depend on "Sterling one, and they are continuing to build themselves by making their plans to end up in the words and papers, to benefit a few clever. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Without changing in this, things will be those that are inside Yanga club. His translations may be as a dictatorship. Or is it saying that Yanga have not got the secretary that suit them until now that is why they have been employed every after a short time? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query482 road accident
query483 by-election
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_47068882 He opens a soccer center "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 24 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The center of developing soccer for the youth under the age of five to 18 is expected to be opened on November 26 in Kitunda Mwanang'ati, Ilala Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking to this newspaper the owner of the center, the former goalkeeper of Simba and Yanga teams, Ivo Mapunda said that he has seen the importance of teaching children the foundation of soccer when they are still young. "The center is called Mapunda Sports Centre, the aim is to teach children the foundation of soccer since they are small so as to build a strong national team later," said Ivo. He has also apologized to all the parents of Kitunda to allow them to bring together their children to learn soccer. Procedures of joining the center are available on the day of the launch in collaboration with the local government. Ivo Mapunda is among the players of Tanzania who have played soccer in great success. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_48293155 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. YOU have to be the hashtag "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by John Mhala, Arusha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 08 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo has urged those who are doing business of parking passengers using a motorcycle transport known as a motorcycle, to have a symbol of the area they are working for, so as to control those who use that transport to commit crimes. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Gambo has given that directive during the opening of the road safety week. Gambo speech has been read by the District Commissioner of Arusha, Gabriel Daqarro. He urged the road safety committee of Arusha province to do everything possible to ensure the motorcycle riders have a symbol of the area where they are working. Gambo has said that now there is an increase in that transport to be used to investigate robbery in the middle of Arusha City, thus having the marks will help to identify those with bad intentions. He has said that it will help to know whether robbery is done by true criminals or there are some of the business people who are partnering with the criminals to do that crime. "We must put an effective strategies for the motorcycle riders to have a special symbol of the area where they are working so that criminals can be known and good people to be known. That will help to know those motorcycle riders and those who are not good and action should be taken against those who do not good for the community, "he said. Apart from that, Gambo has urged the drivers in Arusha province to run vehicles by following the laws put in place, because many accidents in the province are caused by their non-compliance with the law including driving while driving with speed and causing accidents and killing people without basic reasons. He said the traffic police are supposed to manage traffic rules and refuse to take bribes because bribery is one of the reasons that increase road accidents. In addition, he said road accidents have been reduced the year up to the year due to the drivers obey the law, therefore, it is a must that the police should be so far to manage the law so that the situation continues so. He has said that in the year's statistics in January to October this year, accidents were 2,011 but in the period of this year in January up to October the accident has reduced up to 1,692 accidents. The police commander of Arusha Province, Charles Mkumbo said the accidents have been reduced the year until the year. He said in the year 2015, accidents have reduced from 763 to 725 this year, equivalent to five percent, normal accidents have reduced from 972 last year to 911 accidents this year and that is equivalent to 6.2 percent. He said the motorcycle accidents have reduced from 763 accidents last year to 614 accidents this year and that is equivalent to 20 percent of the motorcycle accidents. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_96628809 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The novel is strengthened to improve oral and teeth to Hadija Tuesday, Mwananchi, on Tuesday, @ scientanchi.corez Titfarming is among the fruits that are found in large numbers in the country having a lot of supplements in the human body. Tunda Man is a source of liver, oil, crush, calcium, phosphorus, potentum, magnesium, carotene, metal, fold A, B6 and C. despite the recovery of affordable prices, Tunda Man is also sold in a different place. In some areas even its pieces are available. Although he does not be advised to eat the fruits that were stolen, the pieces of novels are also sold on the road too. However, the novel has many benefits in the body derived from the large number of water. The experts tell that 92 percent of Tunda Man is water. It is important for the health of teeth and izi. It is against the destruction of cells while helping to make sure that energy and simplify the blood circulation in the body. It is also removing poison in the body and to a man who is eating his seeds helps to increase male strength. They strengthened the protection of the body and speed up the recovery of wounds and injuries. Tennessee has a huge amount of Iycopene than fruit or vegetables. Many hula Tunda this is without knowing numerous benefits that you have. Whether in a ceremony or hotelini and sometimes at home, the novel is still a healthy friend. Many who eat Tunda Man makes its seeds without but all of them being given to its benefits are many for the health of the consumer. One of the issues of nutrition say the seeds of the farming has a lot of liver and therefore resolve it can give the consumer the source of those supplements. Also, his flavor are comparing the sunflower seeds. Also, the fuel that are in the seeds are not Bethlehem to a large extent therefore not to cause the blood vessels thus reduce the risk of getting heart and stroke. There are seeds "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_77821510 In the language of Dodoma, the boxing team that was to start is seven. Next month it has been and from the players being unable to come out to Juba, two players from left to ride they have come out. The market in the delivery of the nation in Dar es espond He will attend this post here. It's done in the camp and found two players and two coaches as there is no sign of the start of the head coach while watching the national consent Reading a book he mentions the reason for being denied that card, many players who make the commission come from the teams of our forces are looking for permission is that due to their employers, it is to come to exercise and yet they have not yet got to communicate with Arsenal coaches who are still in the military camp as well as the stronghold has left that first. Tomorrow or the week it will be complete and they will be with them here we are doing exercises The coach is also the effects that will be found due to the faltering of the camp The law is the right of the world in the world in the country and exercises we will do well and to confirm that it will be good that the new theater and topic apartment will not help the youth to do good and go to inform them for Trump starting well we will try. Doing bad because now, we have delayed the players that are taking back, they are not affecting their standards because they are already training in their clubs. They were wrong. That will not forget. So differently, I do. So much here is faith that It will only be possible, I know we have been getting tired of not starting love, but according to reports the situation because of Mwanza province before Mwanza province before. The national boxing team is preparing itself with the African championships that will be held on July twenty this year in Mauritius, live in Dar es Salaam.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_40498484 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Former Mozambican president's son "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. December 16, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The child of the former president in Mozambique, Armando Guard, Values Guard has been reported to have been shot dead in the capital city of that country Maputo. Get the mother of one female child, Zofino Muiuane was arrested by police following the incident that took place yesterday. Miss. Guard was 36 years old and reports claimed that he was shot several bullets at his home and died from injuries when he was taken to the hospital. Her husband was arrested in one of the entertainment areas in Maputo, according to one newspaper of the country. Values Guard was listed in the seventh position among the upcoming women in Africa and Forbes in 2013. He was holding a high position in several communication companies and owned businesses that are owned by the family. Her husband is businessman without working in "British American Tobacco." The two blocked the marriage in 2014 at a ceremony attended by 1,700 visitors including South Africa's president Jacob Zuma, King of the third place and the son of Angola's president Isabel dos Santos. The late Values was born to get a female child last year where his father Armando Guard retired from the president in the year 2014 after serving in two years. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_21086126 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The law lecturer criticized the work of his fellow lawyers in the country yesterday were accused of using a lot of time to follow the cases that give them a lot of money instead of learning in colleges. This has caused the presence of many lawyers in the country who don't do the required work, said Professor Njenga Munene of Egan University. According to Professor Munene, many lecturers of the subject of law takes a lot of time in the work of a lawyer and therefore lack time to care fully. "We need to have the lawyers who succeeded and know their work as required but the lecturers run every money and forget to care for them," he said. He was speaking at Cathy Hotel in Nakuru during the launch of the lawyer for the lawyer at the University of Egan. Professor Munene said that the university had the aim of being the lawyers who succeeded and those who have good work behavior as well as to respect their leaders. The head of that college, Professor James Tutoek said that Kenya has a number of 10,000 lawyers. This means that one lawyer serves approximately 4,000 citizens. Professor Tuitoek said that Egan will fill the gap in the number of lawyers. Rachel ABUI and Francis MUREITHI "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_30646433 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ruto has denied the residents Bondeni branches and the new party WYCLIFF, Barbados BII and Leonard ONYANT, the governor of destruction, Isaac Ruto, to form a new party has raised various feelings in the areas of Ufa Valley while some of the residents saying that it is a conspiracy to distribute the votes of the citizens of the Christians. The youth from Pokot West County, Elgeyo / Marakwet and Baringo under their coalition; the Rio Valley Youth Association (Kparties) claimed that the new Mashinani Development Party of Kenya (MDPK), aims to sabotage the leadership of Deputy President William Ruto. Speaking at Chesoi area, the chairman of Joel Kimaiyo and Secretary General Jackson Merit said that Governor Ruto was going against the requirements of the residents of Ufa Valley. "Governor Ruto and his party is set to sabotage the leadership of the Deputy President and to disperse the efforts of connecting the residents of Ufa Valley," said Mister Kimaiyo. "But the governor deserves to understand that his plot is not successful. Indeed, Governor Ruto is running a political grave, "added the chairperson. Merit asked the Governor Ruto to support the deputy president who is the leader of the residents of Ufa Valley as he wants to be elected again as the governor of destruction in the next elections. Mr Kimaiyo denied the claims that the new Jubilee Party has been faced with opposition in the Ufa Valley. "The truth of the things is that most of the residents of Ufa Valley have agreed to embrace a new party after the Deputy President, Mister Ruto has explained to his home in Sugoi area that the goal of Jubilee Party is to unite Kenyans," said Mister Kimaiyo. "In every community there are people who don't want unity and in the Ufa Valley area, that person is Governor Ruto. And that is democracy, "he added. Merit claimed Nairobi. is that Governor Ruto is being used by politicians from outside the aim of sabotage the leadership of the deputy president and to negotiate before the 2017 general elections. "We are unable to understand why our brothers, Governor Ruto, did not learn anything from former ministers Franklin Bett, Musa Sirma, Henry Kosgey, Magerer Langat and Sally Kosgei who opposed the leadership of Mister William Ruto in the year 2013 then they found them in the cold cold," said Mister Kimaiyo. However, MDPK party has been supported by some of the residents who have not been satisfied by the Jubilee Party that will be used by President Kenyatta to vie for presidency next year. "The violations of the political parties and forming a new JP party comes in the dark days of one party," said Mathew Kosgey from Nandi County. The MDPK party is expected to announce his electorate in a small-election county. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_54114746 YOU are sick. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Sophia Mwambe "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 19 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda has officially launched a special program aimed at improving the transport sector of famous motorcycle riders together with Bajaj, who will now be registered with their special numbers, that will be written in the uniforms they will have been wearing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The program will be known as a new motorcycles and Bajaj in Dar es Salaam. When I start, there will be no need for the police to get a motorcycle and it will be easy to reduce criminal acts. Speaking during the launch of the program, Makonda said it will help the passengers if it will receive any matter, someone will have the ability to use his mobile phone by producing special numbers, such as financial services and going to the section of Bodaboda and Bajaj in Dar es Salaam province, then incorporate a number that is in the driver's draw. Makonda said that after getting that number, he will be able to be given the real name of the driver, the number of registration of his motorcycle, the area that he has led, the leader of his area on a motorcycle and his phone numbers together with that leader. Also thanks to all the Bajaj drivers in that province, they will have a special draw that will be distributed freely together with a hard cap. He said he intended to improve the sector so as to be reliable and to avoid the trouble they face with the drivers. He added that the launch of that program will help them be treated in transportation especially between drivers and police, a situation that created tensions. "These improvements have also intended to evacuate the arrest of motorcycles and Bajaj in Dar es Salaam city," he said and urged those drivers to follow the laws put in order to avoid unnecessary accidents together with possible mistakes that can be avoided. He ordered the police force of the road safety unit in that province, to increase the number of soldiers in all roads from today to ensure that the law is followed and respected. In another step, Makonda has officially launched the association of drivers and owners of Bajaj and Bajaj in that province, where he commended that step and urged the members to use it in order to bring development. Previously, the chairman of the organizing committee of Bodaboda and Bajaj in that province, Daud Laurian congratulated the provincial commissioner for that creativity and that the step will increase the great honor in the transport sector which was interpreted as a crime and bad. He said, a motorcycle and a Bajaj in every district that is Temeke, Kinondoni, Ilala, Ubungo and Kigamboni will have their colors of draw together with their number. He added that together with other things, the new perspective aims to increase business opportunities in that transport, where a person, an institution or organization that will need to write the announcement in a hard cap or candles will be forced to pay. "But also, this sector now contributes to a large extent in the national income, whereby in Dar es Salaam province for a year it can bring more than two billion shillings," said Laurian. The launch was organized in a huge partnership between the office of the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA), Chotec Limited, police force, Shell Advance, Clouds FM, Event Master and attended by various leaders together with motorcycle drivers and Bajaj. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_23157817 Agriculture is now reliable for prisoners "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Sammy LUTTA and Benson MATRIED prisoners in the prison of Kenya is responsible for a difficult situation including lack of good nutrition and congestion and working hard working for the rubble. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Some of the women living with their children who must show them to make sure they are healthy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The lodge that was built in 1968 to serve 150 prisoners, now has more than 500 prisoners, has made big steps to ensure prisoners live well through agricultural projects. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This is despite the lodge is a area that has a lot of temperatures and does not have enough water to meet the needs of the population. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A part of the land near the Turas County Council and the county commissioner's office has a green race because of different types of vegetables and fruit trees that the supervisors of the lodge depend on getting food every day. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The manager of the farm, Mister Peter Lokeris, said they usually get vegetables that are given to prisoners together with bananas and mangoes. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "We usually use 30 kilograms of vegetables from this farm every day and we will depend on the water from the water company of lodge that we pay to grow the plants in this farm," Mister Lokeris explained yesterday. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The head of Turas Rashid Powon said for a period of six months, the prison has reduced the cost of food to 600,000 shillings which they would pay for business people. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Our success is derived from the volunteers for prisoners and access to fertilizer from the locals who are breeders. The fertilizer has made this farm to have a uba every time for all the year, "said Powon. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_95492231 You then come to the mym news. And then I asked the price They told me but as a bullet I get out of eight hundred thousand shillings and now it will be eight hundred thousand shillings for one hour and then it was the others I had told it was that Simba's house is coming from five hundred thousand shillings. Directly we mym yeah. Five hundred and six hundred thousand in the AHH I was proposing to buy one hundred and six hundred thousand, you know what is it? Ehr now what we do, I ask how do you do yeah. Ehit now isn't you know that There is no even if you accept us to take it even so mym
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_49751574 The presenter of Channel ten we continue with our news report and the journey of sports and entertainment that the war, I Said it was air and we start in the wilderness where we have a Yanga international star who had given him in different media stations a few months ago, Mbuyu Twite, perhaps tomorrow not to play in the game of cutting and axes of rivals Simba and Yanga that will be played at the National Stadium in the city had been donated by his new club of at least thirty thousand American dollars to be registered twice to join the full report. Yanga was given for a thief and the committee of ethics and the status of the players so that it can have paid the money and goals I will take it but instead he was signed by Yanga but until we will not do it, something that Simba's leadership through his news officer, Ezekiel Kamwaga has confirmed that until now it has not given those funds to click to the soccer federation, that he's carrying Yanga to write a letter and ordering him to be paid for the money. Thirty did not end up there, look for the longest general secretary together with the acting secretary general of Yanga Lawrence Mwalukasa who have been operated on the fate of that star to play tomorrow where while the grass he made a ten-card Effect, he wrote a letter I have explained that the punishment is fine but they fail to write a letter to two lines to say that there is no committee's decision, he says right now and you will be able to pay that money. Unlike your success I request Let me tell me To be People doing love Ehhe will give us the money But it is known that It was ten commission. Free the player has not paid is Simba yesterday they haven't done yet. But you know that all the hours are addressed and when you see tomorrow he is doing. Politics is growing. And I can't know the community But we lost dirty Commissioner Mussa. From Dance of sports Soccer fans have complained of Tanzania Football Federation in Tanzania. Failure to control the acts of some people shot down the tickets of a big match in the country after the ticket of Simba's match and Yanga ended early, especially those of the minimum of five thousand shillings, those fans have claimed that the Tanzanian market will fail to continue due to some of the people having greed because of delaying many fans to buy normal tickets where the activities below and be eaten and sold and later on a level of seven thousand shillings or a weak eight. They lose hope When you see, I don't know what they are told to have already been completed. This is something surprising is just a time today from the morning, maybe they could have two hours at 6 o'clock and tell us about it. Now this is true the country, we will arrive, let's help. I have not heard and thus ended with a bullet at a time like this one of the aircraft until tomorrow morning I would agree a little to you. I don't know he is scared but he takes the work he was surprised. Time Of 2: 30pm I'm not able to end up Furniture And how many hours will he get from telling them he does not show. That is looking for and finding where these children especially in the villages and decide for only six million, the stadium takes many people in the south, we can't have to give me six million people. Going on, there are different prices there are seven people there are ten and twenty-five. Now it means that these are the meaning that all the stadium is full and we cannot take a whole image We can tomorrow in the premier league game where it will start at one hour at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The province of Dodoma through the Allah promoten company has started the process of getting three representatives who will participate in the national competition to look for miss tourism for the two thousand and twelve thousand and twelve thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and third to join The spokesperson for twenty years, we request to apologize for the report not ready and we are continuing with our news report and now we are joining Fredy Mwanjala which has organized international news for sports news. The defending champions of the world cup competition popularly known as twenty twenty, the England team has played the competition after being left behind the strength and the others fell in the final trees of the elimination of eight matches, the soccer team has been Elvan for sixty and six weeks, he has been giving us and got sixty and seven matches out of us but that is the end of failing and it came in the country for nine and losing ten colors and nine that he has joined with the victory that they have taught him away from England in the finals of South Africa and India in another match to play the finals of the tournament. To come from Kenya who is now getting the first contract this season in the Spanish premier league after scoring one goal and fitted Misti wanted less than a single child to be released by a red card The last goal was scored by Diego caste earlier in the first half After every team than he was defeated Barcelona is leading the league with ten points and eight points being given by Atletico de Madrid with twelve points and even finished with ten points and four points for his ten points. The United States in the basketball league, I have been told the preparations of the basketball team that is holding the new prime minister of that game to America, he got a blow after one child was signed yesterday is what to remove them and we have seen moving to rocket transfer of a player they have taken a lot of money. But it has been deported from the Peace of which is the knockout stage and coming from the champions of that league, this eggs the general manager of the end has good wishes. And the players of the national football team of France when they won gold medals in the Olympic championships have ended almost in London among those arrested by police in the country on suspicion of organizing the results. We haven't done that in the Olympic games, I am Now a friend among eight people are being held by the police on the allegations involving them. That reporter uses a time he was also arrested after their match on Sunday, he and his colleagues think today in court to answer their mistakes of bribery and if they are found guilty he will be sentenced to five years in prison or a fine of thirty thousand dollars. I reported international games Fred Mwanjala channel ten Thanks to Fred Mwanjala that the information on the side of the news International news on the side of sports news and now we have regained in our report that comes from Dodoma province where we are told that through the Allah promotion company has started the process of getting the third representatives who will participate in the national competition to find miss tourism for the two thousand and twelve thousand shillings. In the Catholic Church, we were able to see the misery done in thirty-five participants just after taking the forms of asking to participate from the organizers In that interview, the judges were questioning various artists including history of their lives and what they would like to do when they are selected for miss. Speaking to this center, when interviews are underway, the director of the central region of the promotion Politics especially remain, he clarified that just after the elimination, they are expecting to get twelve participants who will arrive at the camp later before getting into the encounter when I will give you a victory they will support you here at this time or you have received ten participants and six participants. It means From Saturday, only one week I saw you will go to exercise Since they will start home Ehhe will be there to go back It reminds me of Dar es Salaam After that, I woke up at the end Agriculture first, we take the two who do not get to the camp so that we can get to know their behavior first at the loss of something Your toes close When there is water but the first winner in that competition will be awarded one million shillings For being the second winner getting seven hundred and a half thousand shillings and the third winner will leave with five hundred thousand shillings From here in Dodoma today to jump on Monday Thank you so much to go to Mwangi from Dodoma and here is one we hate our news of sports news and entertainment. The weather forecast you will get and then we will go back here to conclude this information.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98876558 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Gas processing industry, sunflower oil is built in Dodoma. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Sifa Lubasi, Dodoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 29 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In Dodoma Province, you will get a factory of shrink, and to decide sunflower oil. 250 people are expected to get jobs in the factory. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The executive director of the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), Professor Godius Kahyarara has said that while handing over a check of 3.7 billion shillings to the Director of Grain and Mazao Mixed Board, John Maige, with the aim of buying sexual orientation machines and that of production of sunflower oil. The machines will be supported in one factory. Speaking after handing over the money, Professor Kahyarara has said that the provision of those funds is in line with the NSSF investment policy to invest contributions from its members in productive projects. He has said the NSSF industrial policy is to take industries that involve many citizens. However, he said the primary thing that factory will start working is a must to look at the local and international market. The Deputy Minister, Office of the Prime Minister, Labor, Youth and Employment, Antony Mavunde has said that the factory will give many jobs and the economy of farmers, you will change and grow. The director of Grain and Mazao Mixed Board, Maige has said that the Grain and Mazao Mixed Board in collaboration with NSSF will implement that project. The factory will have the ability to gather 60 tons of maize by day and decided 13 tons of oil seeds for a day, where the project is expected to produce directly 250 jobs and more than 6,000 jobs including farmers. Maige has said that the start of the processing industry, cereal and translators are the results of the implementation of the government's policy to uplift the economy of the country and the central economy of industries. Director of legal services of Azania Bank, Geofrey Dimoso said the bank is cooperating with the government to implement the policies of the economy of industries. He has said that bank is on the way to reach farmers. The District Commissioner of Dodoma Town, Christine Mndeme has said through the start of that factory, many employment that will be present and the market will be found. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3120 shoulder to shoulder
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_49739982 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 6 are supposed to have weapons to the traditional surgeon "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Nashon Kennchez, Mwanza "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 21 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Police in Mwanza province has arrested six people with two weapons which were made in the country, they used to use the activities of the grabbing and looting of property, which are reserved for traditional surgeon. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mwanza Province police commander, Ahmed Msangi said yesterday that those people have been arrested on October 18th this year at seven o'clock in the afternoon, after the police at the patrol of Businesses, Ilemela Municipality, have arrested those people after receiving information from good citizens about the presence of those criminals. In the previous stages, the police arrested Jeremia Mkumbo (25) a resident of Malega in Singida province. "When he was interviewed, he admitted that he was involved in crime incidents and to mention other people who participated in he said," said weapons that use in crime they left with a traditional surgeon called Leonard Lugo, a resident of Kagid- Businesspeople, "explained Commander Msangi. He said that the police went to the house to the traditional surgeon, Leonard Lugo (39) and after inspecting his home, they arrested 22 bullets used by a gun of Short gun. He said after being questioned by the police, the suspects mentioned four other people who were cooperating in doing crimes that have been arrested. He named those who were arrested as Kamugisha Jovin (40) the defender and resident of Iloganzala, Juma Yusuph (35), a resident of Bwani -Kinondoni, Samwel Peter (36), a resident of Businesspeople and Shaban Hussein (26), a shoe and a resident of Nyasaka Mozambique in Ilemela Municipality. "All the suspects were done to interview confessed that they used these weapons in the grabbing of property and looting in the city and our province of Mwanza," he explained and added that the police continues to investigate about the incident and others which they have made and when the investigations are completed, they will be arraigned in court. In another event, Commander Msangi said the police has arrested two residents of Dar es Salaam who were found in the theft vehicle. He said that the suspects were arrested on October 18th this year at eight o'clock in the afternoon in Ilemela Municipality, Ilemela Municipality, while in the process of selling a vehicle with registration number T.778 AZV of Toyota Land CRUISER, they were hiding in the Malaysian businessman, Ilala in Dar es Salaam city. He mentioned those who were arrested as Rahim Feka (28) a resident of Ilala and Ally Kawale (32), a resident of Jet Lum- Airport. He added that those suspects were arrested after the police received reports of stolen from that vehicle from Dar es Salaam city. "After getting information from Dar es Salaam, we felt that there is a possibility of this network of theft of vehicles to be in the provinces of the lake region and after conducting investigations we managed to arrest those suspects," said Commander Msangi and added that all suspects are under police custody for more interviews. He said the police in Mwanza province is communicating with their colleagues in Dar es Salaam, to conduct procedures of transporting those suspects. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_92046146 The Etihad Engineering department to be the host of the AE & M meeting, Abu Dhabi, department of Engineering of Etihad Airways will host the sponsor of the next general meeting of engineering and renovation of the MRO-based network that is expected to take place in Abu Dhabi on April 26-27, 2016. The general debate is expected to be on the growth of a 20-year history, with stakeholders in the Twitter "Air, MROs, OEMS and retailers" to bring together and discuss different market issues. Various topics such as development in air travel markets in eastern Central, the forecast sector of MRO, and how airline companies are creating relationships with other MRO. Among the leading speakers in the leading sector, Jeff Wilkinson, Vice President of Etihad Airways on the Technical side said: "It is our joy to be the host of the engineering and renovation of the plane here in Abu Dhabi, the new hub of air technology and transport in the eastern region of Katiamen that once again will give a tour of his center to delegates after concluding that meeting, thus giving them an opportunity to meet with the leadership team of the department of engineering as well as giving an opportunity to visit the workshop and various workshops inside the station. "We have prepared a tour of a modern center of the engineering department of Etihad Airways, its workshops together with workshops which will take place in the largest center in the central region of the central region. This includes six workshops (6) with the ability to save up to three major planes (3) of A380 at the same time. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_52919010 UVCCM "at war" again "and Lowassa "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. December 19, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The union of youths of the Revolutionary Party (UVCCM) have said that it is a shame to the leaders that have ever been given higher bail and the government to lead the administration of the administration and fail, to start criticizing their colleagues on non-basis accusations. Also, the union has expressed his disappointment with the claims that were released recently by the retired prime minister, Edward Lowasa, urging President John Magufuli to leave a plan to buy a plane instead he will keep the water. The acting secretary general of UVCCM, Shaka Hamdu Shaka, gave the statement in this province yesterday when he visited the water distribution project and inspected new wells of clean and safe water that are used to distribute water in Kiniha Ward in Biharamulo district in this province. He said it is surprising to listen to the leader and the politician especially Lowassa who once served as the minister of water and livestock later that the prime minister was unable to solve the water problem until he resigned from the Richmond scandal. Undoubtedly he said it is not good for someone with the opposition to denounce even the good things that are done by the government. "Lowassa is denounced and criticize because he is against President Doctor. Magufuli, a person who wants to give a bamboo eye on your colleague's eye, he should remember him he was a minister with a bond of water, but he also failed, "insisted Shaka. The acting secretary general of UVCCM urged the government officials and the district council to continue their partnership and to recognize that they have a bond of serving the citizens and solve the problems that they are facing. He urged the government leaders at the concerned level to understand that there is no need to listen to accusations or criticisms that are provided by the opponents because their work is to say every day and the work of the government is to act and demonstrate in actions. "I am happy to see the leaders in the DC office to work together and in collaboration with the district council, we all are in an effort to build a stable house, therefore there is no need for the management of the CCM manifesto of 2015-2020, the President has said that you are making your ability in actions," said Shaka. Previously, Shaka participated in the construction and inspected the progress of the construction project of teachers and the health center that was started at Kaniha Primary School in Biharamulo district. Undoubtedly he was accompanied by Biharamulo district commissioner, Saada Malunde, to view that project. The head of the district said the government is doing everything possible to ensure water experts are looking for water areas that are required to get enough wells and people get clean and safe water. DC Saada Malunde, said that there are four wells out of 12 that have been destroyed and that they have ordered the new ones at the time when they arrive in production and distribution of water will be reliable in that ward. "We have 12 wells in Kaniha ward where four out of those have been destroyed, we are in great efforts to ensure that the problem is ending quickly," said DC Malunde. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2498 fisherman
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_96897400 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The statement of CHADEMA, Kigoma province about the tour of Doctor Slaa and the threat of the safety in that province. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This is a statement issued to the press today Dec 2 2013 being a statement of the Chadema sitting in Kigoma province. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is about the session that took place at the Kiji regional office carried a agenda to discuss and improve the arrival of the secretary general (T) DR. P. Slaa in Kigoma 5 / 12 / 2013 where he will visit all the 8 provinces of Kigoma province for meetings not less than two in every province and later the last meeting, in the evening the meeting will take place at the Jimb headquarters, the aim being to look for the life of the party. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Key and important things were considered as the security of the leader following the scandal of the executive committee against Mhe.Zitto and the tradition of our members. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. To give an official report to the states and receive the situation as it appears in their areas. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After Tafaw's detailed and wisdom and wisdom in the arrival was made. The province requested the nation to move forward and move forward on the date of the important tour to our province so that the region as the lower level of the region and the nation will be able to go to those states and educate the members and our partners about respecting and having discipline and decisions made by our top level even if they are pain.... the constitution should be taken to solve the problem - the views of many in the province and the leaders of the party is to be intimidated by the decision of a high level which is apparent to Zitto - Political. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. II. The province was intimidated by threats after receiving information from some of the regional leaders of the province that the security situation is not good for the coming of leader DR. Slaa's arrival to Kigoma during this period when members and lovers have thought and with different statements that are not aimed at the Third III. The wisdom of the session was satisfied by getting opinions from 6 states that the situation is very bad when he advised the general secretary to bring back his tour to pave way for this conflict and to the security of Chadema and its national leaders. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. IV. Therefore, the province through that session may be better to prevent than treating, already the uncertainty seem, the leaders and especially in the provinces with their attitude is wrong in that situation, the province was satisfied that security will not be in general even if some states are saying they are safe. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. V. HOW / I Don't know the situation will not be safe to Help them go away. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The province is not able to blame with deliberate negligence because the responsibility of the lower level is to provide advice to the high level, therefore, the province provides advice to the headquarters (T) Chadema to move ahead of the tour until the state will grow up with the region to be satisfied with the safety of its leaders and especially the nation. The main aim: It is making sure that CHADEMA is safe in the difficult time for us - CHADEMA, Alhaj. Jafari KASIZO in Msafiri. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. M / five: 01 / DEC.2013 Secretary General "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query4148 selling cows
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_68010109 When we work with it, then it's just normal, we look like the leadership we will continue to be good even if their wives will now get better then let's talk in the middle. Fifty thousand shillings Yeah. The thing of another thing I feel is not now to be able to get a time when you get an election, htt; htt; I have a change in our government and we also need to be able to get in our daily life so we should be able to look at least a business that can help me to open up so that our communities have to come up to get a change Mym Whether It was the norm that he will now see hundreds of that would be good or we ask. Yeah, it is important, well. Ehr
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_13294539 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Northern Ireland sponsored 8 Degrees on higher education "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Basil "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 30 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Eight professionals have been given an opportunity for funding and the Irish embassy to study the masters degree in various fields. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That grant has been given through a special program of the government of that country to fund the studies and training of Irish Aid's Felipe Training Programme that is supervised by the Irish Government. The Ambassador of Ireland in the country, Paul Sherlock, speaking at the event of announcing the funding at the embassy of that country, Dar es Salaam, congratulated those who received that opportunity. "I celebrate everyone for this opportunity. Since the start of this program 40 years ago, we have helped more than 200 Tanzanians who are participating in the Irish Aid program's Felipe Training Programme, "said Ambassador Sherlock. He added that the program is important in the relationship between Tanzania and Ireland and the training was started to help achieve the goals that were set by the government of Tanzania in its second phase of development, which is being implemented in five years. Areas where the beneficiaries of that funding will be oma in their postgraduate studies are sustainable agriculture, nutrition and managing and evaluating the health and they will be studied at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), the University of Sokoine (SUA), the University of Dodoma (UDOM) and Mzumbe University. He said the beneficiaries are the professionals who agreed to focus on their professional area and when they finish their studies, they will be ready to work with their institutions and to use the skills they get to help the whole community. Yesterday also, 10 Tanzanian shillings were given certificates of identification for finishing the degree of diploma this year through that program, including two who received scholarships to study in Ireland. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_44497290 There is a function of n _ i _ c Ohh is where I think I am so grateful or not I thought the day I had told me it has been postponed because it was so simple Ehhe is there. Uhuh will I think we don't think we won't. Mym Ati was a Talent for a mother's mother, let's look for the virtual assets we were given, then it is fascinating that there is blowers that Market as a radical Market we get the defence this time was Competition. How to do a mm there, how did she get into the school mm when it came into the year? That comes to why stations but we must not be able to find a tweet while the colle or the ka is the right to reach tomorrow It's not going into the crush, the price of around may be the cause of crush Competition for three months of Last time we went to the john on July and AHH we got the day above the hashtags When you are now coming up with the university while I come to compete or at this time coming up to do what the mym is halo and then let's say that anyone can get. Mym Uhuh is not Competition Ohh to be told is we Forward now that we should know the other people and ka there are these people. If anyone can get into it, it is not a must for security it must be that the school's studies should even if you feel like that but you want to know if those austers do we get to the moment you want to wait until the Next year the cause is crush. Ehr Mym then I wanted to get when I received it, I don't say that I don't say I don't want to say we should not vote for you, let's go back to where you go to you and tomorrow is to be a religion to show what happened in the country. Halo mym Now it's not in k _ u they've ever started the scandal now not to know your phone and m _ the ten you buy it was a pister and TWO hundred Bob ehit to pay it to be their account in Nairobi I won't give out how they can use it and not see that one person wants to use m _ money that cord while Cthere. About the one you have given that, not there is a transaction, the number is crush and letters maniper now, that is the best to go to the internet so also that Kitale gave you a register and that's what I think this is the password I don't think it is more than you. To Jerusalem maybe the number then used as password mym When I am I am not mine was using it here in Sweden unaclear what I will get if you get to account, they will use there, they will use you to use your name now if you are in the group clapping as you can get a group or individual if it is a group not you know you will get the first one with even the register if you do not know if you can't know if you will get back and create if you will fill the TIN formation. Ehrohh someone can go as a group Ehhe and mym ehrohh then now the case for this week is coming up when a person is arrested. Mym SA is just crush with Jane with Competition So that is until another year and then you can now get out that you don't go to school when you go to ask him and then what a person benefited from? When you clap or costs for me, I can ask for it, I don't have. It's ok. SA know you are the most coast of lt; hes tgt; but you are Swahili today as you're watching the ball of ball Stephen and you understand the meaning and you understand the Market I go and then there is a question then there is a question then there is a Mem card that you want to answer you and is good to buy if Salon should apply to you. I can. Ohh yeah, those things are wrong with you, so your wife is there and mym ehhe. Mym ehhe, so it becomes something a good thing is being sold at 6 o'clock in the same time, it is a must for a fool. When I try to hear what I will tell you about it. It's not what I will tell you as also using it above. The same
query1670 title heading return
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_65387926 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They waited for Sure they are in detail with the concerned criminals to be taken against them. Doctor Sgood is not a regular government official. T adds a key commission that will decide the fate of several land owners, especially those whose ownership certificates were outdated. The commission is currently continuing with investigations regarding the mouse of land in different parts of the country and especially in the Lamu area where several acres of land were eaten by famous people. Therefore, there is a possibility that those criminals were building an important documents so as to sabotage any investigation which would enable the commission to identify the use of those who have, they have used their relatives and friends to take that land. We have talked about this case considering that a few months ago, criminals stormed home to Dr Sgood in Nairobi but the attempt was looked into when his guards faced them. The office of Doctor Sgood is in a high security building, that is protected by 24 hours every time, therefore, it is surprising that criminals can enter the House easily, to ask up to the office of the chief that is in the city and broke and plunging an important certificate without the AP soldiers who protect the building to see them. We hope the police will do a thorough investigation and arrest those criminals and also the police officers who were walking to work. The most important thing is that the invasion shows the need for copies of the government documents in elsewhere in order to prevent the possibility of criminals to disrupt evidence. Also, we hate the acting inspector general of the police, Mister Samuel Arachi to assess the security of the officer at his home and afisini with the aim of improving even further if it was revealed that there is a possibility of criminals and not to enjoy her work, when robbers stormed the office of the chairperson of the national commission of land, Mister Muhamed Sgood on Friday and plunging the important documents being investigated. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41030966 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The wife to avoid the husband for a practice of stealing the eggs, the mother of the village praised her husband claiming that he discovered he had stole the eggs of his chicken and sell it. It is said that the guy, who is a white man and a addicted in the eggs of a chicken that his wife usually uga and selling them so that he gets money to buy phones. But because the days of the thief is forty, his wife noticed and was angered by the behavior. "Mama said he would have lived with a white husband whose work is to sabotage his efforts by stealing his eggs. He changed the chicken and defend her husband, "said the poem. The efforts of the relatives to ask for forgiveness and vowed he will not return those mistakes again, it did not help him because the mother did not change the intention and he will return to them to start a new life. And our writer "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_11186917 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. As teacher: Don't have your father's property, look for you "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Nicodemus Ikhwan "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 10 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The ivory is free is not equal to charcoal because in his walking may get. In the same context, Swahili language also say the spread and thrown out of the rice. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. These semi-finals means that it's always working for a living living with a person who is not dealing with. As yesterday, this week has made it good to give our youth palm, this time when we start the year can help them in front of the journey. This column has already written about misconceptions that have been established in some of the youth during the studies at different levels of education that they are studying for the sake of their parents or guardians and others it reaches a step of boycott the school such as studying for their parents or guardians. The truth is that you read for your own life and your family will start and not otherwise. The following issue can give you light on those things. It was at night, in one of the rest areas at the end of the week in Dar es Salaam city when I got to capture this story. I was impressed by the stories that I've got my neighbor I was with me with ideas from neighboring countries of Kenya. He told me that two parents who were working and living in a good house in Nairobi, found themselves having to take action that they did not expect after bringing their son to every state until the age of 35 while still under their Empire. According to his predecessor, at the time of that life, the young man gets all the services to parents and he every told the news of certain work he refuses to claim that it is not good. The father was not enjoying the situation but because he loved his boy and because he loved his boy and because the ability of money allowed him to be in any step. Finally, he was married at the age of 35 and therefore his parents moving them to a house to live a home worker. The new couple, they got the first child, then the second and later they were born in three times while all of them and their children receiving all the services of life from their parents, an amount of being given a car for their private transport and their family. Here I would like to remind of also the famous saying that you are saying; "the child you know." " When he saw his family continues to expansion and his parents are still living in a big house, prompting her father that it is good for him to each other with his parents, because they are only two, then they live a small house of a servant. According to the story, that is where his father ran out and took action. What he did is to pay her child house for six months and accusing them that during that period he will repair a big house together with the sleeping house of a servant and then they will return to those houses to live. Therefore, the young man agreed as he said his elder. In that period, the father was forced to reduce the use of his child and putting them into business so that he does not continue being dependent on everything. Before a period of six months ended, the father will sell his house and moving to another area without his son to know. When it came back to their house he found another house and remained open. The efforts to repeat of his father told him that he does not even have money to pay for a house without being told it is his responsibility to preserve his family and not otherwise. What follows is a cry and grinding teeth for being faced with the thick darkness of life. This story is enough for the young people who come from the authority and power of their parents are vulnerable to them as they have positions and power like that. There are children of directors, provincial heads and districts and even popular business people who have seen that they do not need to work for their lives because they have not seen them having power and those properties as they are their parents. They think that they don't need to feel looking for their property. This is a misconception and the youth must change. This is possible that we should stop being complacuated by the property that are not yours. Look for your name because they are rushed, they say "a lot of charities are poor." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_85603833 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Etihad "raises a snow" Sokoine JOGjogging) "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. September 18, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Etihad Airways, with its headquarters in the United Arab Emirates at the end of the week have helped the Sokoine Stadium, Tanzania which is in Temeke District, Dar es Salaam city. Etihad that won a three awards of air services this year, has given sports equipment, after some of his employees participated in friendly matches and different games that took place at the Uhuru Stadium, Dar es Salaam. More than 90 children of that center, most of them from the age of 10 to 14 were together to participate in that friendly match involving football games for boys and netball for girls. That bonanza that aims to strengthen the unity and health to the youth. The Sokoine sports center that was started on August 20, 2014 with the aim of helping the youth of 7 to 15 years to benefit and through sports and exercises to run. While thanking the organization, the founder of the center, Felix Kauta Massawe said; "we are thankful for receiving this great support from Etihad. These equipment will help us in our daily activities here in the station. He added; our sports center has approximately 120 students who need important equipment in the training we give them, this is not only we are helping to get sports education but also improve health through sports and the exercises they are getting. " Speaking about the donation, the coordinator of marketing and sales of Etihad Airways in the country, Grace Kijo said; we believe that by helping these youths are preparing the nation of youth with strength and we are expecting to help and sponsor more in sports stations and other events like this in recent days. He said that organization has been determined to help and bring change in the community where it makes its activities. "Our sincere contribution to the region is to ensure it helps the efforts that were introduced to bring sustainable development in the community and improve the lives of the community, including education to children and to enable their lives, he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_68223782 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Bil 15 / - organizing a youth in Tanzania "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by special correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 09 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said that the government has set aside 15 billion shillings for the purpose of providing training to more than 2,500 youths so as to empower them to be able to participate if the workforce in the industries are expected to be built in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He gave that statement yesterday at the opening ceremony of the best employer of the year 2016 that took place at the Julius Nyerere International Conference Center (JNICC), Dar es Salaam. Those awards were organized by the Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE). He has said that the government has started focusing on providing training in the priority sector by considering the national development plan like agriculture, oil, gas, tourism, transportation, building and skin products. He has said that efforts are going on in other areas so that employers should have a broader scope of getting employees with good skills because the government acknowledges the importance of them to have a work with skills and competence in the aim of increasing productivity. In another step, the prime minister spoke about the challenges that are being reported by the employers of the presence of various charges that are provided by different government authorities for the services that they know and already the process of identifying all laws that are seen to delay investment together with the business environment in the country. "Our aim is to continue improving the environment of doing business in the country so that they can attract more and the process is being addressed by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. We request the cry and cooperate with us in continuing to identify the laws that understand the business so that we can be included in that review, "he said. However, he advised all employers in the country to continue doing their work in accordance with the law to avoid unnecessary conflicts in the workplace. "We're saying Here, we are working on both sectors of Production and provision of better services in the country, whether the Private sector or in Public service. I urge my brothers of Tanzania to make sure that in the year 2017 you will work for the efforts and knowledge to increase productivity and efficiency in the workplace, "he said. And the minister of state, the office of the prime minister, policy, parliament, labor, youth, employment and people with disabilities, Jenista Mhagama urged employers to help put pressure in the efforts of providing training for the purpose of experience and increase skills by providing opportunities to graduates to get experience in their work areas. However, he said that he knows the importance of employers and employees in the implementation of the policy of the country especially by increasing employment through the industrial sector by 40 percent by the year 2020, the success of the program depends on the contribution of employers from the private sector. He congratulated ATE for recognizing the importance of investing in human resources especially by giving awards in the area of developing talents, where he requested the next awards to increase the criterion of getting an employer who uses its resources to increase skills to its employees who are the source of lifting productivity and competitive business. And the Executive Director of ATE, Doctor Aggrey Mlimuka said the aim of organizing those awards is to recognize members with good policies of the management of human resources in institutions and various companies in the country. He said those awards will follow scientific and professional techniques to look at the importance of human resources in the big and small companies so as to uplift the skills of employees who are working hard to work in the work places. Doctor Mlimuka said those awards also focuses more in checking important areas of human resources, leadership, governance, management of human resources, to help the community and be responsible in the community, quality and production. In another step, Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) has got the overall victory of the best employer of the year 2016 that are provided by ATE. This is the second year in a row for TBL to get that victory which has resulted from what appeared to be his competence of making good and safe environment in the workplace through innovation done by the human resource unit. The second winner is the first-Cola first while the third position will go to the Gold Ashanti United Geita Gold Mine and the second is Coca-Cola first Limited. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_40618641 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Muhongo: It is not enough to join the investors. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Soter Muhongo, has claimed that Tanzania will not be held again to investors of the mining sector not paying taxes and to make the country benefit from its resources. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that the day before yesterday in an interview with journalists after the government of Tanzania and Finland signed an agreement in research and growing the mining sector. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "If it is for us, they did that in the past, but for now they can't again," said Professor Muhongo claiming history shows that all countries with natural resources, originally were held. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He admitted that previously investors in mines were demanding that they were getting losses but for now, the law is forced to pay 30 percent. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Professor Muhongo's statement was as a result of the journalists, about the benefit of the mining sector while it has great benefits. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Professor Muhongo said that for now the mining sector contributes 3.5 percent of the national income. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said the goals is to ensure that the mining sector contributes more than 10 percent by the year 2025. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Earlier, the directors of the mining sector in the government of Tanzania and Finland signed the signature of promoting and developing the mining sector in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking about the agreement, Professor Muhongo said that they consider three things, which include the mining research in the southern provinces. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that basically they have discovered that the region has coal, bronze, I am with a platiny. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that they will do is to identify the areas with minerals and real standards so as to enable investors to sing them, to walk into a reliable agreement. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_29807346 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TBS will be able to control poor products "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by editor "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 30 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo has wanted the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) and other stakeholders to cooperate with the state and assets to make sure they control the poor and poor products that are imported and made in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In a speech that was read on his behalf by the head of Ngorongoro District, Rashid Mtaka at the fourth meeting of the stakeholders of the Tanzania Commission of Standards that is taking place here, Gambo said the country is facing a big disaster of the circulation of poor and poor quality products and to a large extent that contributes to poverty to its citizens. He said that it should be controlled by all the strength to the stakeholders of those sectors together with the citizens by exposing those involved, and TBS and other stakeholders, they should partner with the state and assets to deal with that situation so that Tanzania should not be DAO of non-quality products. Together with calling for TBS and other stakeholders, Gambo urged the citizens to boycott poor and poor products, because it is the only way to kill the market of those products. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_51775670 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Leopards has been ordered to prepare SGM again from the registration committee of social parties, has directed AFC Leopards club to renew his special meeting (SGM) to discuss the problems affecting the old team. The deputy registrar of that office, Joseph Onyango has given to the club 21 days to implement the directive and submit the report of that meeting for more than seven days. Onyango said that his office has been forced to take that step following the request of members of that team. "I have received a letter from the chairman of the club supporters calling for a special meeting to solve the problems facing the club in general," the letter concluded, "the letter of the members are protesting the names of the current members." The officer sent that letter on January 5, 2015, to the secretary of that club popularly known as Ingwe. again the members through their chairman, James R. Kazhungu Sraped, have asked for their special meeting to be held on December 28. The meeting that was emerged with lack of enough number of members took place at the Railways Training Institute (RTI). By John Lukuwi "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_80698217 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Careless clothing housing is possible to be very difficult but that is the truth. Some women have been concerns not only for men, but even to their fellow women around them. Equally important to write this topic, this is the habit of some of these women not following their bodies and decided to wear their empty clothes publicly. Some have been doing that on the excuse of going to and when, despite me, they are still in mind. Now in those they have gone ahead and make a joke even in the house of worship. Guys in the fashion issue is good to know that, every place there is his approach to the whites that call him 'dress code'. The office's clothes is not the same as the one that is born in the bury, or the sbury is not the same as the one that is born in the celebration. The teachers' clothing is not the same as the doctor. These things are not limited there, as they go to the homes of worship. In recent years, there has been a new fashion to make houses for worship as part of the beauty competition especially for women. Worse, you are putting your children clothing that do not go with a Tanzanian culture. What the naked clothes you are going on, that is what I want to sign up with the children. Again in the place of worship. I Don't know exactly what I want to make it there. We should be sure that each of us is supposed to be clean in front of God but this cleaning does not live to wear trousers, to stop some sensitive areas outside or wearing a short clothes! I know that all of you are aware of the special clothing to wear in the house of worship and instead you are intentional. I think this is us with us and not otherwise. I understand it is not many who are aware of the dangers of crucking clothes, especially when you go to the holy place like in the habahu of God. And you don't know you don't dare even one day to wear those clothes. When I talk about madineahu I think everyone is aware that it is religion especially when I aim. Among those effects first is to build children who were worried about their creator. For them, they will follow how you do what you are doing and therefore wear those that are not wrong in the church. And normally the children will not end there. Because the action of entering and evaluate the church will take a young man, an issue that will bring the hope to them. In that logic, there will be no ideas of God again, except that the rule of the devil. Let me say the truth from my heart that, in this I have no problem with the believers of all religious denominations. Because they are aware of how to wear while in their places of worship. They do not know exactly like religious books. And because they don't have the process of confusion during this service, it is still not a big problem. In these things that are not wrong, I would like to beat him with a couples especially female. What I understand me is that you have got different types of training for a period not less than a week before marriage. A class on good clothing that is good on the day of marriage is one of those trainings. Surprisingly, on the day of the marriage service, you are coming to him on the shoulder. Is it forgetting or arrogant? Let's be afraid of your God. They have not stopped the house of worship. When you are not part of the dressing room, it is a personality to meet your imagination with your God. Therefore, it is not badly getting ready to get in that environment. Wearing what is acceptable to your God and not otherwise. This issue of trapped 'fashion Police' on the doors of churches is a shame to the believers and the church in general. Because it does not tell you in mind, you are your colleague instead of praying, and go on the door to inspect who is wearing a bikini? Badilla! You are not afraid of your God, tell you as it was ordered in your religious books, if you need to examples with the workers of the church or masista as they wear, that is the right answer for the dressing room that should be born in your own homes. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88072542 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Investigate the case of "terrorism" in UDOM. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Sifa Lubasi, Dodoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 17 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The case of terrorism offenses which is facing a second year student of the University of Dodoma (Udom) Faculty of Health, Azan Abubakar (23) has been postponed until December 29 this year when it was mentioned again due to his investigation. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The accused was arraigned in court for the first time on November 17, this year after being found in Nzega in Tabora Province after being found to be involved in the terrorism network of the group "Al Shabaab" in its stronghold in Somalia. He was arrested by the police force as a result of false information on terrorism issues. The prosecution the day before yesterday was presented again in front of the magistrate, Mwajuma Lukindo of the District Court of Dodoma Town and the case was postponed until December 29, this year was mentioned again, while the prosecution through the lawyer of the government Kezia Miyango saying the investigation is not complete. Abubakar is accused of sponsoring terrorism under section 13 of the criminal Justice Act of 21 of the year 2002. It was claimed that on May 15th this year, the accused sent money Mohammed Ibrahim through M-Pesa an amount of 265,000 shillings in the number + 254 708104109 for the purpose of terrorism in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1652 EXAMPLE _OFgrandparent
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_86491505 African Union is run by Uhuruto-phobia Oct 17, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Our Africa is not forgotten. From the details of Idd believe a lady of Uganda, Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of Congo), Jean-Bedel Bokasa of Central Africa, Charles Taylor of Liberia, and now has Omar al-Bashir from Sudan and others, the folks have not lived. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Well, these I mentioned in Africa to have a reflection of the folks. From the folks, administrative folks in their countries, the folks of their personal lives; lightning there was a lot of folks between this will never forget. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Explaining his experience on Africa, British journalist Martin Meredith says even so that despite the challenges they face in African Africans, all the time in Africa has been surprised by the sense of strength and their strength to face the challenges. Meredith has worked on African media for over 15 years since he was 21 years old (1964) and wrote a popular book, "The State of Africa: A history of Fifty Year of Independence." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In his own words, Meredith says: "What has always impressed me over the years is the resilience and humour with which ordinary Africans confront their Many adversities." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Despite the folks, there are people who made Africa can be respected and at least, the other being stupid, the rubble is in a certain way and the actions of these people in the second group. In this list there are a teacher Julius Nyerere, Nelson Mandela, has Bishop Desmond Tutu, Kwame Nkrumah, Kofi Annan, Joachim Paisano and others. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Since the list of the folks I have been addressed is so long, I would just like to discuss a new documentary that is happening in the African continent right now, while the African Union has got in the trap of implants more than this. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This incident is a great effort that are burning right now of wanting to kill the president of Kenya Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto, in cases that are facing them in the International Criminal Court (ICC). As it is known, these cases involve the participation of these two people (before they are in their current power) in the aftermath of Kenya's general elections in 2007 / 2008. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto, are politicians who joined together to join together their parties a few months before the Kenyan elections earlier this year. To join them there during the election period or their unity in Kenya has come out to be known as Uhuruto. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Analysts of political issues are revealing that both two, Uhuru and Ruto are youths of the retired president of Kenya Daniel Arap MOI. It is reported that, Ruto, from one tribe and MOI of Kalenjin, has been politically motivated by MOI since he was a student at the University of Nairobi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Uhuru is the choice of MOI to succeed him in the presidential seat in 2002. However, things are gone like how it was planned because Uhuru has been washed away by a thorough camp Mwai Kibaki. Therefore, he won the presidency for Uhuru this year to fulfill the dream of Mzee MOI, although it is for delay. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While conducting the election campaigns of this year, Uhuru and Ruto said that if they would win, they would continue to cooperate with ICC. But now that has changed... it has been a lot of inspiration (from these leaders, their country and even their friends - including Tanzania) to protest in general to continue with these cases this time as leaders of the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This pressure has led to the Kenya Parliament to pass a recent declaration of suicide in ICC. This means the withdrawal of the Roma contract which formed the ICC, which has accepted that the concerned country has agreed to be taken against appropriate measures (that is convicted) to a person or a group of people in this court if they have committed crimes against humans, such as mass murder and so on. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The inspiration for Kenya is now supported by the African Union (AU). Last week members of AU (through the ministers of foreign countries of the AU) have met Addis Ababa to discuss this issue. In one voice, they came to the ICC demanding the case against Uhuru and Ruto, or not to end these cases in Kenya or stop them until they finish their leadership period. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Or has gone far from thinking to get his countries in ICC if his resolutions will not be implemented. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_66020646 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Wambali - "I will accept the resources of this nation to be played" the deputy minister in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Mhe.Anastazia Wambura has called on Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) to preserve the resources of the nation because it is money from the taxpayer of taxpayer dollars and could be used for another job than the destruction that is taking place at the airport of that organization, which is built in Kisarawe Coast Province. Mhe@@ In addition, Honorable Wambura has given instructions to the organization to look at the possibility of developing those settlements because up to now, 20 years of that area has not been continued by that organization or to undergo any investment or have given that area to the council of Kisarawe so as to build the hostel of the students and added that he will not allow that area to pass through the destruction of the citizens to demolish houses and selling them as metal. On his part, the Director of Administration and Human Resources of Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) Bi.Joselin has said that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will ensure that they will ensure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will make sure that they will be renovated but they will start a renovation of phases in the provinces of Arusha and Mwanza and the headquarters so that is in Kisarawe region. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45087861 A resident market. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Basil "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 14 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The resident market in the world has crashed and affected various countries that protect that product including Tanzania. However, the government has said it will work on that situation so as to make sure it is looking for markets and alternative buyers to be resident that are in the country including Bahati (Manyara), Lindi and Mtwara. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Deputy Minister of Agriculture Livestock and Fisheries, William Ole Nasha acknowledged that the residence price in the country has dropped and that the resident market has been built in the whole world. He was responding to an additional question in Bahati's member of parliament, Pauline Gekul (Chadema) who said that his residence and the business people have refused to buy them including a big buyer in India while neighboring countries of Uganda and Kenya have been encouraged and wanted to know the government is making an effort to save the situation. Responding to the additional question, Nasha said that the resident market has been built in the whole world and the big buyers have refused to buy permanent residence at the initial price and to give an example of Mtwara and Lindi that they were bought to 500 shillings for one kilogram. However, Nasha said the government is making efforts to look for a big buyer who will buy the residence of farmers here in the country for a good way. In the primary question, the Member of Parliament for Lupembe, Joram Hongoli (CCM) wanted to know how the government should deal with the conflict between the citizens and the investor who was given the Igombolo factory, since 2009. Nasha said that the investor of tiques Mercantile (EA) Limited won the case by the union of cooperatives, Lupembe, (ACLU) was ordered by compensation that is estimated to be 28 billion shillings together with the cost of running the case, but that he will appeal and therefore the case is still in court. The Minister of Agriculture Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Charles Tizeba said the conflict has come at the end and urged the ambassador to stop holding onto and reject the court decisions in order to avoid conflicts and enable citizens to benefit from development that are being done by the investor. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1681 license permission
query3044 childhood
query1626 sugar factory
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_27451815 Serengeti raises momentum in Congo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Vicky Kimaro "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 22 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The youth soccer team under the age of 17 Serengeti Boys will leave today heading to Rwanda for a 10-day camp. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Serengeti is preparing for a repeat match to qualify for the finals of the United Nations for youths of that age against Congo Brazzaville, expected to be played next week. In the previous game that was played at the National Stadium at the end of last week, Serengeti defeated Congo by 3-2 goals through Yohana Mkomola who scored two goals in the first half while the third goal scored by Issa Makamba in the second half. Serengeti got a blow to the second half after a number one goalkeeper Ramadhani Kabwili who had injuries while trying to save a penalty kick that was played by Langa-Lesse Pompeo. The TFF information officer, Alfred Lucas said yesterday that the players have ari and that the goalkeeper Kabwili is doing well, including the players of that team that lacked the first match to return to the squad and they will play the repeat match. "We believe Serengeti will perform well, the players are great and they are well psychological, Ally Ng'azi and Dickson Job had yellow cards that were forced to miss the Congo Brazzaville's game that is serving a card for a card but now the repeat match will play," said Lucas. Cows was given two yellow cards in the game against South Africa that took place on August 21st this year while Dickson was given a card at the Shelisheli game of home he was given one card and replied he was given another card and in the game and South Africa was given a yellow card so as to get a number of three yellow cards and forced to miss one game. In the repeat match against Congo that will take place on October 3, Serengeti is supposed to play or recovery and allow it to win or win, so that it can get tickets to play the finals in the year Madagascar "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_93115278 We what we want is to remove CCM only "Aug 19, 2015 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. As I had promised in the past article, this week I continues with my analysis on the general elections expected to take place on October 25th this year. And as it was in the past few posts, my analysis will be in the race for the presidential position. While in the past article I discussed the opportunity and obstacles to the candidates "two heads, that is Doctor. John Magufuli of CCM and Edward Lowassa of Chadema / UKAWA this week I will come in more details, with the aim being to use this article to make an analysis to one candidate, and the next week's article will look at the other candidate. Let me start with Lowassa of Chadema / UKAWA. Between the past article and this, it is not a secret that the worst news is what is called "flood of Lowassa." All the activities that involve the politician in that period has protested by a huge crowd of people, from when he took the forms of vying for the presidency in Dar es Salaam to the meetings that was introduced in Mbeya, Arusha and Mwanza. The numbers of people who are coming out in the activities of Lowassa, whether it is by protesting or attending meetings, it has made great hopes that the way the former prime minister heading to the State House is white. In line with the big attendance, several members of CCM have left the ruling party and joined Chadema. But the big one is to move to some of the leaders "who had names" inside CCM. That protests and meetings are urging many people, that has no debate. That the upcoming events of the politician will continue to fill people, it is also not an issue of discussion. Likewise, there are members and more CCM leaders to follow Lowassa in Chadema as a surprise. We should not allow us to conclude by sure this time is if you have shifted from that of some of the members of CCM and their leaders to follow them, that Chadema will be interpreted in victory in the next general elections on October 25, approximately two months from now. Despite the presence of great inspiration about registration in the voter register that has been improved by the technology to store a record on computer (Biometric Voter register (short BVR), until this time the National Electoral Commission has not given the full number of those who registered themselves. But despite that, there are already signs of errors in BVR's issue where they have been released several reports of those who registered to see their names while doing sure. The size or the smallness of the errors has not been known as the National Electoral Commission (NEC) has not comment on the issue. Here I will join those two issues above, that is the majority of the people who are coming out in Lowassa's activities and registration exercise BVR. It comes out to conclude that in large numbers of people who are coming out in the activities of that politician can have its benefit from his party in general, then the first majority of those people, if not all, must be registered to vote. However, their numbers will remain a history. But in the experience we have many, registering voting is one issue, succeeding to vote is another issue, and to vote for a certain candidate and the vote to help him is another matter. I have been talking about the previous articles that one of the biggest benefits to CCM is a biased relationship between him and various public institutions. And I expect most of your relatives, you have heard the cries of opposition politicians roughly since the start of a multi-party system that those who vote for their votes are punished by the ruling party for the support of public institutions. " Although all the accusations have continued to remain the allegations, the environmental evidence is heading to signing those accusations. Personally, I have been following up on the general elections online, particularly on social media. Recently, I warned Lowassa's fans about their joy as a result of the audience in the public activities that involve that politician. I reminded me about the previous elections, especially "the speed of (itus Lyatonga) Mrema," the former presidential candidate in the general elections of 1995 through the NCCR-Evolution party, how he used to be popular to fill the mass of people in his meetings, but threatened to have been dropped by the CCM candidate, Benjamin Mkapa. I also reminded me about the numbers of People that came to the Doctor's campaign meetings. Doctor Willibrod Slaa, the former presidential candidate on Chadema ticket in the last general elections, in the year 2010, but he fails to meet the CCM candidate, Jakaya Kikwete. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_80303336 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Member of Parliament for Moshi should be a city of education, tourism "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Arnold Swai, Moshi "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 31 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The member of parliament for Moshi town region, Japan, Japan, Japan, has said that Moshi town will be announced that the city will make sure it becomes a city of education and tourism in promoting its economy after the industries that were reliable. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Michael made the remarks the day before yesterday when he was addressing the citizens of Boma Stadium which is in Moshi Municipality, Kilimanjaro Province, where he said the opportunity for that town to have five universities together with the tourism of Mount Kilimanjaro, it will contribute to the city of example among other cities in the country. He has said that while the citizens of waiting for the implementation of the fifth phase government of Tanzania of industries, it is a must that stakeholders should start putting alternative plans different from depending on the only industries, including investing more in good education and tourism. He said that after the death of timber, sacks, plants, plants, and machine Tools, the economy of Moshi has been depending on tourism activities of Mount Kilimanjaro, universities, together with small business activities. The member of parliament said that the city will ensure that it is good for universities that are in the country which are Moshi Cooperative University (MoCU), the Catholic University of Stefano Moshi (SMMUCo), the University of Masoka and Christian University of Christian Kilimanjaro (KCM). He said due to the existence of various colleges here in the city, he will ensure that county schools are improved with the aim of providing better education equal to schools of organizations, religious institutions and individuals, with the aim of producing better students in the country to prove the city of education and tourism. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_31234943 ATCL Airlines will ue Kahama "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our writer, Kahama "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 30 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Stakeholders and various businessmen in the district, Shinyanga province, have requested Tanzania Airports Company Limited (ATCL) to plan to plan for a new plane to include Kahama district. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They have requested the exclusion from that district to be the business hub that joins the countries of the East African Community. That request was issued a day after President John Magufuli, to launch two planes of Bombardier Q400 type which were made in Canada that will make trips to the country and out of the country. Those businessmen said that the presence of at least one of the planes in that town will help in promoting business and to local traders and outside they will use that opportunity to do their activities in time. One of the business people, Candy Mtembei, who is owning the Kencan Company Limited that deals with them on the road tickets of the Lake Region, requested the government to give priority to the growing district. "Kahama town is in the middle of five Great Lakes countries and also surrounded by big investors especially those of minerals and agriculture of tobacco. With at least one journey for a week, they return them to get their businesses at a time, "said Mtembei. He said right now, they are travelling a distance of more than 400 kilometers away from Kahama to Mwanza to look for that service and others travelled from Ngara, border to Kagera distance of 600 kilometers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_12524477 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Is Yanga doing to kill where Emmanuel Okwi? Do they do it? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While the premier league starts, the oldest player, Ugandan, Emmanuel Okwi has been one of the most useful viewers. Did Yanga have gone to 'a enge' in his registration?. This could be a question that his answers are clear. First, Okwi is the Etoile du Salehe, the Tunisian player who bought him from Simba team. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Why is Yanga?. He was playing for SC Villa of their home in Uganda for a loan agreement of six months from Etoile. Narre again, he was playing for Villa on loan. FIFA allowed Okwi to play in Villa for a while in three cases that allows the Ugandan to be impressed with you. Okwi on his side claims that the Tunisians broke the contract by failing to pay his money as it is needed. Simba also demand their payment from Etoile. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Okwi was allowed to play for Villa in order to protect his level, and he was not a player he will face with that team. He was blocked to play for the national team of Uganda in the ongoing African Nations tournament for the players of the internal league, CHAN, because he was Villa on loan from overseas teams. Though, it is Villa that is the ones who are said to sell Okwi for Yanga team. With what authority?. Up here, Yanga will have been arrested. Because Okwi is the Etoile player is not Villa. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yanga have signed Okwi claiming that they are right. They believe Okwi is a free player or the Villa. Though, he was supposed to play in Villa for six months, but he spent less than two months and was bought. CAF, Confederation of African Football have arrested Okwi to play for Yanga. The committee of law and status of the players has blocked its use until when they get a clarification from FIFA, the Federation of soccer in the world. Yes, they are right because FIFA, yes, who said that player will play the Villa for six months while his cases were dealing with. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. FIFA, they can allow Okwi to play for Yanga for his talent. Though, they can also block him if they know that this player has violated their previous instructions which they told him to eze Villa. It is possible that the player was seen taped, by punching Yanga when knowing that his contract is in Etoile. There are players who won the war like Okwi, but there are also those who joined the FIFA rubble. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Perhaps Yanga has accused Okwi using Okwi on the front days, but for now it is the validity of that player. If, Etoile will continue to hold their stand that they don't know their player wherever he is, Okwi will face it. If Okwi will be seen as legitimate claims he can be paid by Etoile, but the trouble is where Villa got a permit to sell Okwi for Yanga team? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Each other side has its lawyers. Oh!. But Okwi's lawyer can be a little more, with a lot of mind, by being able to get signed by Yanga's radio for his explanation while campaigning for his client that he does not have a problem. If the law was put to end, and if the contracts all the days can improve, Yanga will use Okwi, but we should not be surprised by FIFA, saying that the player's assets of Etoile. Yanga bought where Emmanuel Okwi? Maybe here is a basic argument. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1083 education make noise
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_27659449 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Affecting growth in Dodoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Basil "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 05 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The problem of growth in Dodoma province have reduced from 56 percent to 36.5 percent. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking to this newspaper yesterday, the Nutrition Officer of Dodoma Province, Mary Boniventure, said the new statistics of the year 2015 / 2016, shows that the problem had decreased by 36.5 percent from 56 percent of the statistics of the year 2010. He said the problem has also reduced in Manyara Region from 45 percent to 36.0, Morogoro province from 44 percent to 33.4 percent. Boniventure said that growth is more than a small length, poor and mental growth, reduction in the ability of thinking and working. "The child becomes poor development in schools, absenteeism and stop schools, in terms of adults, poor production in the office, agriculture and livestock, entrepreneurship and others," he said. He said that a person with that problem has a big possibility of getting diseases, children suffering from time and so much more likely to get non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, cancer and heart diseases. He said that human life depends more about what happened in the first 1,000 days of his life. "1,000 days since the making of abortion until a child is attaining two years, it is an important period because it is in this period the child is growing very fast and he has great needs of the implants," he said. He said the destruction that will be caused by it will cost in that period of two years, it will not be scared in the whole period of his life, thus making a whole man in growth. He also said that the strategies of the province in dealing with growth is to strengthen the capacity of young and small children, children to start being shown early in the mother milk and starting from additional foods at the right time, while continuing to be shown to the mother's milk up to two or more years. The Nutrition Officer, said another strategy is to ensure the implants in food that are made with wheat flour and maize flour, salt. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_89614189 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Dudu Baya has snatched the phone bar, Nusura citizens. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Artist Dudsadappeared in another scandal after being accused of stealing a phone of a big stakeholder of Twanga pepeta, who was married as Mapao who was seated on one table at Mango Garden while Twanga Peteta entertaining on the 14th of March. It is said that Pope Mapao was unbeaten and entertainment he woke up and left but after getting out, he was shocked that he had left the phone on the table and back but he found that he does not exist with a person who left him is Dudsadly he was still here. The state was bad in the hall because some of the fans suggested Dudsadly he was still here. The situation was bad in the hall because some of the fans suggested Dudsadly he was still here. The situation was bad in the hall because some of the fans suggested Dudsadly he was still here.... it was quite bad in the hall because some of the fans suggested Dudsadly he was here.... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_83571585 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A student who was put back in school "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Pate Siyame, Sumbawanga "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 03 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The District Commissioner of Sumbawanga in Rukwa province, Doctor Halfield Haule and the defense and security committee has succeeded to bring back to school a female student of 16 years of form one who ran out of being on a motorcycle in Dar es Salaam city. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Doctor Haule has also warned parents who go to the studies of their daughters who are married to men who will get married to be the solution to them is ready to look for and get them to court. He has commanded parents and guardians to ensure the chronic and all those who have been paid back to school to continue with their studies, and those who will be taken back to school. "The level of absenteeism for students in school in this municipality to primary and secondary schools is very important to end the number of female students who pay for them to get married is also terrifying," he said. The district commissioner noted that when he addressed the session of the councilors Council of Sumbawanga Municipality which sat yesterday in the city. He told me the tragedy of a female student who had survived to get married in a small age and returned to school, who was reading the form one in the secondary school Itwnoise in Sumbawanga Municipality. "The girl was given a world of maize and lobby one of the beans and cash amount of 30,000 shillings for the use in order to start the dormitory in that school (Itwnoise) but after one month he ran away to school... he went to live for a long time for his brother here in the city and then we heard that he has received in Dar es Salaam...," he said. He said that after that girl escaping, they contacted his brother in that town where he reached him, they reported that the girl ran away. He added that when he directed the head of the police force of Sumbawanga District (OCD), he said that he is communicating with Dar es Salaam so that the girl is married and continue with studies. "I have a great joy to inform them that the girl has been returned and now he continues with his studies in the school," he explained. About absenteeism, he said Chipu Primary School located in Kasense ward, Sumbawanga Municipality is leading in having more than 400 girls, including three girls aged 14 who have been cheated. "What is announcing this time that the school is in that school, the chairperson of the school committee, education coordinators and leaders of that village are there," he insisted. He instructed the leaders to ensure that those chronic children go back to school immediately and continue with their studies. On his part, the councilor of Kasense Ward, Ndinda Ludimila explained to this newspaper that they are 148 out of 400 who have returned to the school and continue with their studies. He added that female students who were shown by their parents have not returned to school where until now they are still missing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_64513417 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We give condolences to the residents of Kagera, Mwanza, Mara "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Basil "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 12 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The day before yesterday the big earthquake happened in the country and affecting the provinces of Kagera, Mwanza and Mara. Also the earthquake hit the cities of Kampala and Rakai in Uganda and shook the neighboring countries of Kenya, Rwanda and Burundi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the country, the earthquake has left a lot of sorrow as a result of killing 16 people, injuring 120 others and destroyed many buildings. We give all my condolences to their brothers and relatives and we also give all the condolences to the injured by building buildings, wall, rubble and local media. Likewise, we give condolences to those who had a shock that led to the blood pressure and fear, which led to bad people here and there after the earthquake happened. We are sending condolences to the residents of Kagera, Mwanza and Mara with the eclipse of the big disaster, which is not expected by anyone. We are joining President John Magufuli in his greetings to the provincial commissioner of Kagera, Major General Salim Kijuu that all Tanzanians have been shocked by the reports of the earthquake, which has caused several people to lose lives, injuring others and destroying wealth. In that province of Kagera, it has killed the residents of Bukoba Municipality and Karagwe district and injured many, including 15 students of the Black Secondary School in Ihero, who are continuing to be treated in the provincial hospital. In general, we request the heads of that provinces of Kagera, Mwanza and Mara, to deliver condolences to the family, brothers and all the relatives that were affected by the earthquake. We request the Almighty God, give them the heart of patience and patience in this difficult period of tears. We are also praying for all those who were hurt in that earthquake, quickly. We have attained the rescue forces, including the police force and the Fire, to continue with rescuers in all areas that were caused by the earthquake by security and security agencies, they will continue to look for all information about the earthquake and all the destruction that took place. Screening centers in the country, media control and the Geological Survey of Tanzania (GST), continue to collect more statistics of the earthquake the day before yesterday. We want citizens who were injured in that earthquake, they go quickly to the clinic, health centers and hospitals, treated because the government has taken enough medicine to those areas. In order to avoid further harm, from the earthquake, we request from outside the house and stay away from trees in the open ground, and running cars, stop immediately. Citizens continue to report more information about the earthquake and we request the relevant agencies, they will continue to provide education to deal with various disasters, including the earthquake. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1904 Red Cross aid organization
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_43528810 I am in the street from the English-language channel Washington d _ c close to our radio player and through this one time where we are looking at here in the phone in more details, we are trying to address and get more details and the expansion of each other than usual in the hands of Sunday Shomari, in collaboration with my fellow musician and on the side of the phone lines we will be in Mkuranga in Kenya and our author. In detail today we begin directly with the report of human rights human Rights Watch the accident, therefore explains that the operation but lost their whereabouts in the past two years in the hands of anti-terrorism forces in Kenya forces have arrested thirty-eight people linked to al-Shabaab terror group. But no one out of these was shot on trial Family members are saying they don't know how their detained relatives should not be compared to the security agencies or their relatives at the stadium and despite the reports that those lost were in the hands of the army officers. The show is also ten dead bodies in dowry and government departments. Adding more fear for those who went to where they are now considering food, according to human rights observers Now then talk more details we have tried to look for the coordinator of the National Human Rights Commission in Kenya Meanwhile, Mister George Bush laura and George Mrara has led to wanting to know how it comes first, what is the areas where these people are dying in Kenya and maybe an interpreter as well as speaking before that George morara is the deputy chairperson of the human rights commission in Kenya which is what we are with him in the phone lines I return to you Sunday. Thank you so much recently. AHH indeed we as a human rights commission in Kenya the information we have And This is as a result? A study that we as a commission we made last year where we watched AHH war of disappearing rary in Kenya I am looking to write a report that is mistaken called "lt; unk, gt; hero and the policy is delayed And in the report we included war. Mym, more than eighty-hundred and hot one do not know where they are until now And also more than twenty-five people who lost their lives in AHH that we call Exhibition tomorrow or rary murder And so the case which were presented maybe is what can be implemented at this time maybe what is the steps that you want to take and maybe you know they are involved. It is now a step that we have taken because we as a commission we have cooperation. AHH very close to the one that we call is the police council or the police. Police oversight of authority The news we got, we were able to cooperate with this council to give a report about the visa. And they take a step that they will do more investigation to ensure that if there are police who were involved in legal action The second thing that we have done is that we have met with the chief inspector of police Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; saying the head coach of the police and we discussed it AHH incidents of our research We know that there are some Kenyans who say that their family has gone missing. And let us fulfill? AHH's need for police to be on the forefront to ensure that they do research or are conducting investigations to ensure that those who have lt; hes Twitter gt; have made a report on the commission AHH confirms that according to the law in Kenya Lord MOI
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_26151133 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Christianity is surprised by Van Persie, you'll see Kiprotich Aug 22, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The big news of the games last week, was the issue of transfer of a player Robin Van Persie to Manchester United from Arsenal. The media have written that the salary of that player for a week will be about 500 million shillings in Tanzania. 'It's a lot of money, most of them. However, in a neighboring country of us, Uganda, our colleague has been rich because of a one-day job. Called Stephen Kiprotich, the National scientist who won gold medals in the Marathon race of the Olympic championships this year. Until yesterday, I hear that he had been contributed by stakeholders and various companies an amount of approximately 500 million shillings in Tanzania. In short, the amount that Van Persie will take a sweat in the whole week, Kiprotich has got it for one day. Again, he was just running away. She is ganged. She is "unbeaten" by fans and more, he has got the money serving his nation and not a club where it is working is not in love but simply for livelihood. Next week, Van Persie will take over 500 million shillings. Kiprotich will have to ASUBIRI to other competitions. If he succeeded, already President Yoweri Museveni has promised that his government will be giving 400,000 dollars to every player who will bring development to his country in a big tournament. The point that I want to protect you today is that there is a lot of money in the sports sector like each one of us implementing its responsibilities. If our nation has ended up in the Olympic championships, the reasons for failing that cannot be Filbert Bayi or the National Olympic Committee (TOC) only. That cause cannot be Selemani Nyambui and the Athletics Association of Tanzania. The reason cannot Makore a poet with the Tanzania Boxing Federation. Even our media is also part of the problem. I do not believe in Tanzania to miss one writer in the Olympic championships that took place in London, England this year. Even if Tanzania had only seven athletes in the tournament, it was still at least one vessel to report what is going on and can also learn why Ethiopia, Kenya and Uganda have left away from games while they were behind our past. Our media remain online. And that's why, I was surprised that one day the journalist asked the question Bayi a question that why the team is doing in Kibaha in summer when Britain is cold. It showed clear that the writer, again a great writer, did not know that this is during the summer in Europe and that is even the Olympic tournament was recognized as the summer Olympics. But, if the writer has never been travelling or not taken to the competition, will they identify these things? This is the geography but it is a must to be better. Today, our media does not report about the money he is in Kiprotich. The way he was sleeping and woke up rich because of doing well in athletics. Youths who want to be athletes are inspired by the success of Kiprotich. The fact that contributions for this scientist was created and driven by the Ugandan government newspaper of New Vision. I haven't seen our media reporting that this year, a scientist who brought a lot of money in the world is the Jamaica artist, Usain Bolt. That until he died last year, Kenyan blogger, Samuel Wanjiru, had already got a gift of more than one million and a half dollars (approximately two and a half billion shillings), in a period of three years! All of us are talking about big salaries of the only ones. We forget that people can be angry for playing many other games. Manny Pacquiao (Pacman) has changed the street that he left in Manila, Philipines, because of the money he got in the boxing game. It is impossible that Tanzania has threatened athletes. This is a nation that has created high level athletes such as Bayi, Nyambui, Titus Simba, Habib Kinyogoli, Mwinga Mwanjala, Nzaeli Kyomo and others. I have faith that are there, so many. The problem is that we all want to criticize or we would like to be in the blame position but not to take appropriate measures. Our government is threatening to give a flag when the team wants to leave the gains. Uganda have promised to give 600 million shillings for every medal. We are just a flag! It is a must for the government to appreciate and make enough investment in sports. It is a must that all the games that can be played here in the country to be played by children to stop. Three weeks ago, Uganda has got its first champion in the Chess game since it got Uhuru. Who plays for Chess here in Tanzania? Anatoly Kasparov, a former champion in the World, made a lot of money because of the game only. We are here being cursed by Chess is not known. Our nation has remained only soccer. Every day soccer. Every week soccer. Every year soccer. We cannot go to this way but it is a must for the government to take appropriate measures to keep the same sector. When we got the protich, Bolt, Wanjiru, and Pacman, our country will change. These wealthy people and the economy will go round. And those living because of the strength of the economy of these athletes, they will respect sports. Bayan is accused of everyone because of doing badly for our Nation. But, I request to ask, what is another person who uses a lot of time in promoting athletics here in Tanzania more? How does the government do to get better athletes? How do the media do to make people get more than soccer games? If the journalist doesn't know that this tournament is Summer Olympics, he will give you a normal boy to go to be a scientist? If Bayi and Nyambui argue as if they are the biggest sports problem here in the country, who would want to be a scientist? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query4001 labor force employment percentage
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_93819329 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ulimbus of Ulimbiki Aug 22, 2012 by Good Citizen. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. To the Minister of Mikel and speke, Uzitoni Street, Bongo. Lover Frank, has started a lover! I thought we have agreed to put my salary for the construction of our house. Now this is the idea of a modern television from where? When I try to explain that we all agree with me and refused to receive calls. Is it such a lover? I know you like to look at the ball on good television and it was shocked but sometimes... and makes it really a way to solve the problem? After all the years? Eniwei, I don't want to even think that, let me continue with it. And why is Ulimban and it's not Olympic. Or is it because we have us with us. I am not a scientist but really we can do a two-week practice so that we should let us do for two years? Our pot and sardines can compete with a special diet of athletes there? Or we see that the number of police officers will decide the number of medal. The officers! Don't have a lover. However, I was in the competition together with the details of the life of the players. I was surprised to see how they come out for succeeding. But after being punished, I think the problem is not only preparations. Even the way we look for people has no errors. One guy brought him a proposal that he wanted the boss to give him to the minister of walks and games. Since I was left alone at home, I got an opportunity to take it after reading and handouts. Let's give your thoughts here. Honorable Minister, after checking the participation of our athletes in Ulimbiki, I request to give my contribution of ideas on how to improve our participation and to ensure that our athletes go back with a medal instead of being alive. Again, Honorable Minister believe that it is easy. Look at what kind of games and ask ourselves if our people can't play this games. Give us candles. We do not have that kind of people? It's not that we are our traditional ethnic groups. When we get those champions in their home and give them lessons they can't get into Ulimbiki and from a medal? Here, there are water games. Competitions of using different types of churches. Mador and carriers. Our fishing experts do not tell us here? Can they go so far and it will be very small, if you give them modern hand, who will be able to compete with them? Targeting the target. Where are our soldiers where they are unable to get even one to target the target at the international level? Now the enemy smoking, want? This without forgetting running. Who has never seen Haile Gebreselassie? His hand has come up with a result of carrying his books when he fled to school. Now he became the world champion from that exercise. We have many children who are still running a kilometer up to school? Potting apart do not have books to carry but carry a brick, or firewood for the teachers. Here is no even one to compete with Kenyans and bloggers? This and do not forget the talents of our sisters. The day before yesterday I look at one on her head. The technique used is the same way to raise the weight in Ulimbiki. We cannot start a bucket competition until we find our champions to go there? And the youth that increase sacks in the buses or to carry the market, or who are smoking in the market, do not have the muscles to compete? Not finished Honorable Minister. These teenagers, and a bicycle carrying ten times of their own weight, given little training to compete in a bicycle race? You don't know that your ethnic group is to jump... now. And without forgetting that our aggression were discovered. I tell you Usain Bolt does not discriminate in front of these. Even before not standing for those who have finished the race. He will not have no reason to save it again and he will be a model for the aggression. They are in the love of sports and the construction of a nation Basi, I found this mind because I loved his thoughts, then I went back to the bathroom. Again I heard the boss's car, however, I had to run as Bolt so that the letter should stop before he was confiscated. And you know the boss did? He stopped his eyes and then aked it up and bowled. "Pumbaf! Who will work to look for these if they are not given all the allowances for finishing all the money provided for sports? Who is ready to leave the tradition of "our white football games" and bring in our homosexual behavior in the national competitions. The gentle. The lifting of buckets. Competition from the canoe. Competition for winding and so on. Wants tweets? Other people sir. Photograph: Let's put my memories! " Then even when the guy came back to know the fate of his letter, the boss told him to go to the ministry of the walk then he described the boss as he broke up until he was buried. But how do you have a lover? She has no good idea. The problem is that we don't appreciate our people. We're still struggling with the people of another country then saying we are the poor country that is why... what poverty is we have the rich people? That is every day we ignore the human resources, and to value the resources that is why the number of officers are competing in the number of players themselves. But it is also in all our plans. In the villages who appreciate the villager's ideas? We have seen many plans as many as you are coming back to us because they are coming up with them without knowing that the fool of our environment is ourselves? Please even the Bible because the orders were ten, those who have a command, and the project is devastating us, we don't know what we don't know. Destroy it. Otherwise, if we cannot identify good people for the Ulimbos, then we should start our country and the games we know us different from that of the world. I suggest the following competition: The laundering. The one who snatched more quickly gets a medal. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The opposition for a long time during the parliament. And also, the ability to give a speech for a long time. Without forgetting our village colleagues and the youth. The ability to sit in half a brick without being intimidated. The ability to spend a piece of centuries. I know things like that can be enough for viewers but potentially. We will get our Heroes. He wants more than your television, Hidaya. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_24915646 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Our engagement to worry I have been with a fianc for two years now and we need to live together as a husband and wife. The problem is that he does not want to know their people nor does not want to be known for us. Is it possible that he is playing for? Through SMS I suspect your colleague is playing with the mind and maybe he wants to use it nor does not have any plan about your life as well. It is about you to suggest if you will accept that or you will leave you as another one that is seen to care. He does not want to stimulate the fire that I got and we have one child. The problem is that when we go to the room, I do not want to take time to stimulate the fire before starting to live. Instead you want to work directly. I advise them. Through SMS, I understand the importance of destroying the farm before starting to grow. Maybe your colleague has no skills and that is why he does not see the importance. To explain his benefits and convince him to try because the sweetness of music is to play. It's fun in the forest I have a beloved friend. My colleague has been used to washing my farm when I was lying and I asked me saying that it is not happy to see that the farm has turned into a forest. The truth is that I'm going to be that. What should I do? Through SMS is very lucky to have someone who cares about the cleaning of your body. I do not understand why you like to grow the forest in your farm because you can bring a dirt on all kinds and insects that are not needed in that country. Mrie your colleague is continuing with that role. KACicks: I think 16. There is a youth who I love but I have discovered he has a relationship with my close friend. Through the SMS, your age is very little to engage in issues if you love her, if you love your friend, you don't try to break their relationship so that you can get that boy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_34379881 It's good to continue mmm mi I am very good to say God of God has done a good deal, but we're okay. Mym and the cricket is doing but ehr Yeah, I have got the work, sir, he has worked in Area Area than just to stay if he does not work with it. Ehhe ehhe mi is the good one we are with. Ehnati, however, is not so cool is what activities especially AKO continues: Mym He told me I don't know he will go only in front of the region where he is going to go back in the region. Ehhe Masiku the burial, I see High School.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_12390247 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. ZFA using indigenous coaches "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. September 28, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Zanzibar Football Association (ZFA) has said that it will use patriotic teachers to teach their national teams in Zanzibar. That statement was given the day before yesterday by the president of that party, Ravia Idarous during the event of handing over licenses B to 26 coaches who finished the training last month. He said the national teams will be taught by the people of Zanzibar themselves, who have licenses of Confederation of African Football (CAF). "We have many teachers with the reputation of being able to teach our teams, therefore we can't see the need to use the teachers from outside to follow our teams," he said. However, he urged the teachers to be ready to work their licenses, which they will get to reach those who were intended. "To work well and get a certificate is one, but the second is to release that profession that you have got and to the beneficiaries intended," he said. In addition, he said that they have a lot of teachers with a license B Zanzibar not little and others have already have a license A because that makes them work as required. He said in accordance with the regulations that they have placed it, any teacher who will not follow the regulations put in place they will be not together with him. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_51683835 The blessings of the blessings of what is one hour later but he has also been the oath of what especially when I saw in the snow because of a reduction but problems even if the book Omi I was using the phone When I watched my watching? Who usually lie about it? What is the point AHH maybe I wanted to say that until then Or music athletes. It continues later on the dancers. I know the genocide will be able to be hit and looking for a song that has been announced by the head why skin cows are people who produce one of the houses or to buy things for what's next here I found a new tax. I have surprised me in sports you chose to blasted him because something of what is not from the urope are using the click here to wear him above, I was talking about the mangoes if we have the answer that could be a lot. And people use it Money playing Music on it To see if you look at the morning What does it mean to tell me that the old will get without water as a need Because sometimes their father is to come with a lot of things before finishing the situation and he said those vehicles did not go through the store, he starts to ask again the music that they are doing, maybe he has his problems and other parts of the water maybe above we have to have a great chat and then I am not a person who is serving. Because I have attracted this beauty, when you look at the history of music said that you are playing music is lack of fare for those buses that explains why we have played a dance, it is lack of fares like this, because the people are playing, you must be grateful for that issue for many years, the rights committee of you know that they are playing a game when the baby's game is very difficult and after the other one is like the medicine is making it down. And the beauty board have the preparations The screenshot is a must I have Hosea, the mine has had to take his son's son. In Mwanza province there is something that should be there, there is an award itself to say a huge expenditure that bothers them even before two or three minutes without a human being. Perhaps you will think Later, he bought you to jump, this is your medicine we will take some of the ors and when he was with BoT So the medicine found what you do because you know the region will also be taken away from the board's activities and in addition to this capital, the project of our project is coming from the husband, there is no way up to places where the committee men do not like meat. It is supposed to be efficiency When you see it now, the concept of pulling the phone and use another medicine which is run down from Morogoro camp before a few years ago, there are things that we know the folks if you are still in the whole time and I ask him to bring him a minute when it starts, I am still very happy in all the three regions to acknowledge that they are ten things you cannot die but not good. Which is not the way we will be able to see an artist blogging so that we have not come to the head. Like two
query4139 white clothing
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_92918395 Twitter lt; unk, gt; In the international news that the script has got an opponent to join our writer in detail of international sports news. And the vice president of FIFA Pink albino halftime is going to play with an old man who is vying for the presidential seat of the world soccer federation (FIFA) who is thirty years and nine will stand for the presidency in the next general elections that will take place in May twenty-nine when Blatter will be vying for the fifth term to lead the federation. Ally who is the vice president of the Football Federation of Football. He has said that it has come a time when changes in different governance have been baptized in games to be about soccer and not FIFA and to bring development to soccer in the continent. Read more on aloli When he released Scout we didn't receive Children tomorrow pressure even not to grant You stop Reading through Third in a voice has been traumatised What I know is also the money he was among the delegates who were on the front line calling for the investigation of corruption allegations and corruption that was released by the pastor Marco riots, we think about the host of the world cup's tender for two and eight dirt on December two and twenty-two until he becomes the second candidate after he is in France to announce the intention of fighting Blatter in the next general elections.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_29446377 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Azam, Stand in a great war in the Premier League "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Grace Mkojera "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 02 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The soccer teams of Azam FC and Stand United today will reduce the pitch at different stadiums to look for victory in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Azam and Stand is among the teams that are vying for the top positions in the stand. Before yesterday's match between Simba and Yanga, Stand United was the second position with 12 points, and Azam FC was holding the fourth position with 10 points behind Yanga. Azam FC may today have the pain of losing two consecutive games in a game against Ruvu Shooting at the Azam Complex stadium, Chamazi. It is out of losing Simba 1-0 against Ndanda FC 2-1 goals. In six games that played, it won three, out of one draw and lost two. On the side of Ruvu, is in the 10th position with eight points after winning two games, from two draws and lost two games. Stand United is the second team after Simba, playing six games without losing, it won three and got three draws. Mtibwa Sugar will play against African Lyon at the Manungu Stadium, Morogoro. In the fifth position with 10 points after winning three matches out of six, getting one draw and lost two. It is meeting with African Lyon which comes 12 points with six points, losing one game, having got three draws and lost two. Both teams need victory to be safe. Kagera Sugar is meeting with Prisons for nine points, both won two games, losing one game and got three draws. They also need to increase points and enter the top positions. Majimaji will be at his home at the Majimaji Songea stadium welcoming Stand United. That team is out of losing all the six games, perhaps the return of their coach Kaliangonga Ongalla, brings new hopes of returning faith to his fans. Unlike Stand United which is also, it can be able to get a good idea and continue to esa in the second position. Mbao will be the host of JKT Ruvu at the CCM grounds, Kirumba Mwanza. In the seventh position with eight points after playing seven games, winning two, getting two draws, and lost three. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35808110 The Summit will be free - Manji "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Rahel Pallangyo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 22 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The chairman of Yanga, Yusuf Manji has said the emergency meeting that is expected to take place tomorrow will be free and fair and every active member will be given a chance to give their notes in their notes before the agreement reached. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking to journalists yesterday, Manji urged the members of the club to come out in large numbers at that meeting that will take place at the club's headquarters in the desert, Dar es Salaam to discuss various issues including the registration of that club. "The meeting will be free and fair to every member who has paid his card, he will be given a chance to give feedback with his quits before the agreement reached," said Manji. Manji said that he has heard in the press (not this newspaper) that the secretary of the council of elders of Yanga, Ibrahim Akilimali has said that he has not paid membership fees, something that allows him to be a member, but Akilimali has confirmed to this newspaper that he is a active member since his card has paid a whole year. However, Akilimali has speaking on phone with this newspaper later yesterday, he said that he is a legitimate member and he has the right to attend that meeting because he has paid his card at the end of one. He said that since he got his card, six months have passed, he still has six months before the end of the time he will pay for one year. Manji said after the agreement of that general meeting to take place at the exercise stadium will start being built within 90 days in Gezaulole area that is in Kigamboni, according to the contract that was signed by Yanga Yetu Company. Moreover, Manji said about the issue of the signing of a contract with the board of trustees against the Yanga Company Yetu everything that will be discussed at that meeting, where members have been asked to be early as security is uncertain. He said if there will be a non-profit conflict between him and Yanga, then the members who will decide whether he can continue or sit along, he is ready to obey any decision. Manji said instead of the members rushing to the media to talk about the issues of the club are required to come out in large numbers in that meeting so as to contribute to the benefits of Yanga. This emergency meeting is taking place while there were uncertainty about how the signing of Yanga Club for Yanga Club has been signed as they violated some of the necessary procedures. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1018 fast abstain Ramadan
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_65602033 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Chinese elephant teeth to defend himself "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Flora Mwakan "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 21 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A Chinese citizen, Yang Feng Glan who is facing charges of engaging with elephant teeth worth 5.4 billion has told the court that he will defend himself without having another witness. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Glan claimed that yesterday in front of the resident magistrate, Mercy witness to Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, after the senior government lawyer Faraja Nchimbi assisted by Paul Kadushi to read the previous explanations. Apart from Glan defendants in that case is businessman Salvius Matembo (39) and Manase Julius (39) all are alleged between January first 2000 and May 22,2014, they were involved in the government's kidnapping business. After the defendants have been informed, they denied being involved in that business and accepted their personal information, and when they were asked how they will defend himself. Glan claimed he will defend himself without having any witness and Matthew and Julius said they will defend themselves and also everyone will have two witnesses, therefore the number of defense witnesses will be seven witnesses. Previously, while reading the previous explanations, Nchimbi claimed on April 20, 2014, the police got reports of intelligent, that there is someone that is involving themselves with the business of elephants' teeth by buying the middle class traders and spreading them in the Asian continent. He claimed that as a result of that report, the police succeeded to arrest Julius and questioned him where he admitted to be involved in the criminal business and claimed that they take the teeth in Asia in collaboration with Matembo and Glan. He continued to claim that Matembo admitted to collect teeth from poachers in different parts of the country and to sell Glan who was the main sponsor of that business to ensure the work is done. Moreover, he claimed that after the investigation was completed, other defendants were arrested and interviewed confessed to be involved in that criminal network. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query4131 Temeke living standard
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_94738640 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Indians break his silence as a musical silence, has officially announced that he is returning to a lot of strength this year. For a period of three years, Inu has not been doing music yet to be unsolved. His last tweets seem to be silent yesterday. This is when he was featured in the bo 'go' by upcoming musician Mknee, then stay in another collaboration with eight of the children who were connected to a patriotic work 'Kmy released another job' For YOU 'in July this year that didn't feel very normal in this year, the wife of the artist Namess has said that he is returning to the strength of crocodile and urged his fans of a lot of days to stay tuned for receiving heavy grenades. "This year I will be heard very much, there are a lot of things I have organized for my fans and I am sure they are happy. I start early to release my new work in February, "akase "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_59667194 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Reading, reading again is the life of the journalist to the journalist, class one was arrested. Archives don't know Kufuli. Students don't go on holiday. The teachers didn't wait. To ask and the response is the style of life. Reading is like a awa! Studying for a new one. Reminding me so that not to forget. Asking for more knowledge. To take it more so as to fill the treasure of knowledge, skills and techniques. Seeking to remain professional. December 2016 was a month to help or enable the Citizen Communications Limited (MCL) to prepare for a lot of work and better for the year 2017. This time, that led the preparation of the journalists was MCL Relations Manager. In the middle of December, before many don't have to go to "eat the holiday," he tweeted and handed over to every writer. It was this: You received a writing. Sign a sign that has got. You leave it. You need to read carefully and use its content to prepare news by considering the criteria and conditions. Write this is a list of instructions, and at the same time, the criteria for testing the work of the writer to write and edit what he wants to be a news. This list is important to the writer. He can use asking questions, research and react. It is this list which the relations manager of MCL, refused to journalists so that everyone should have the same instructions about finding information and respect them so that they can be news. Given instructions and evaluation during the last holidays and the beginning of the year; they aim to tell the journalists not to forget them in celebration and forget them; but remain at work, imagination and testing their minds and their hands. Let's look at the list they were given to the journalists. Here he will not follow the flow of numbers. We shall go through punch. Andry wants a writer to ask whether the reports have come with weight and the value of being the news. Not enough, then continue to collect information and organizing the news. What the writer has written and it's called, it is answering all important questions - what is happening or has happened, about who or what, where, where and why? Andlive wants you to show the importance of what you write and give answers to the high profile questions; for example, about the main characters, who benefit, the poor benefit from what they report. The writer is supposed to ensure that what he has written in a special context and its history is understandable so that the readers can be able to unite the events even to predicted the following. All of this involve the writer and journalism. If there is a place where the writer is not putting it; then do not specify it or give me a writer to me; or not to wait for the recovery of the necessary information to make it news. The list of instructions and criteria is asking if it has shown all the information to prove what you write; it is asking if it has shown a list of the sources of information - people or control and if you have struggled to ask the perpetrators or all stakeholders in the issue that they reported. For many years there has been a problem of journalists to say and believe that there are two sides in everything; every issue. This is not true. Neither is there four sides "like the world." Each issue has a lot of sides as it is looking for the information he produces. The husband was in trouble with his wife, not only those involved in the fight. There is a neighbor who decided; the wanjia who witnessed the fight started; a child who remember the fight started yesterday or the day before yesterday; a delegate who remembers him in front of him in the street office and one of them broke the offense; the neighbors who go to sleep with noise-related noise. It is not enough to ask two people and put in the pocket that the work is over. There are many sides. The list of instructions and criteria that are celebrating daily, is one of the guidelines for the media that are under Nation Media Group (NMG) including MC. Stay away: You have mentioned other sources of information so that you write to be misunderstood? How have you put your story to a special audience and it is not a jumper? Your readers do not have important questions which you answer? What are you writing is true? Unfortunately? It is understandable - language? You are reading your work and to clarify before going to it to be the news? The writer is the social media editor of Mwananchi Communications Limited, publication of The Citizen, the newspaper newspapers and this. In questions and concerns about the media, contacted by the phone: 0713614872 or 0763670229; e-Mail: A stable @ ioo.com or nicambwage @ tz.nationmedia.com "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_14393801 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yono Auction Mart will win the international award for the work performance of the brokerage company, Yono Auction Mart, has been awarded the award of the winner of International Relations and quality work performance, after competing with another 49 companies from different countries in the world, a step that was caused by its performance in various parts of the country. Speaking in Dar es Salaam City, the chairman of the company, Yono Kevela (in the picture above) has said that the victory is due to their efficiency of work including the collection of tax from the chronic government debtors. Kevela said some of the work they did after getting the tender to collect debts of the debtors is of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), various ministries, financial institutions and government agents together with other stakeholders. He said that the victory of that award is the benefits of the efficiency of their work in collecting the government taxes while promising not to be complicit in that responsibility he was given by the government to win that award and instead he will continue to increase efforts so that the company continue to do well, we have good ambassadors of Tanzania, have used the opportunity to market the country and encourage investors to come and invest in Twitter, he said. Kevela said the award was given in France and the celebrations to hand over the winners were done on June 25, this year Rome Italy where the company has won with the private sector, while the government side won the tourism sector through the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA). The company of Yono has received the popularity recently after being given the work of collecting the debts of 24 debtors of TRA, worth 18.95 billion shillings after the victims of buying their cargo on the Dry Port (ICD) of Azam at the end of last year. However, after that company started working, some of the debtors succeeded to pay their debts while others were given up to the extent and some of their properties were accepted and sold to pay those debts, whereby up to now more than seven billion shillings have been collected. Other areas where the company is working to collect debts against various debtors among the areas of land, courts, banks and other institutions. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_57270896 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 27 robbers were arrested in Coast Province "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Coast Province police force has made a fierce crackdown on various parts and managed to arrest the suspects of 27 robbery together with 153 bullets, 2 guns bombs that were being used in the incidents of information. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the police commander of the Coastal Province, senior commissioner Jafari Ibrahimu has said that those suspects have been arrested after being held operation in the bush and arresting those suspects who are hiding together with the weapons they were using to use crime. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He has added that they have decided to do that operation as a result of the increase in reports in some areas of the Coastal Region and arrested those suspects who were found with various equipment including knives, together with three lines of explosions. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In that exercise, they were able to capture the drugs of the type of marijuana in 18 and miring 124 kilograms, 88 liters of alcohol of smoke and its three machines of making fake money 370 machines and elephants' teeth. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1887 China manufacturing industry
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_65092888 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The sex belt of Jini Kabula Sunrise Mitch McConnell "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The star that has been spotted through Tamthingya, Miriam Joler of "Jini Kabula," allegedly recorded a sex tape and distributed on social media. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The source of this news reported that the incident happened recently after a person alleged to be the star's fiance to record the video and later they were confronted, he decided to share it in the CD. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This network has witnessed some of the photos that were found out of the video, then our journalist wondered Jini Kabula to know what he answered until he was recorded that video. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that for the environment of that event, he is unable to even know what happened until the belt will be distributed to that amount and caused problems to his brothers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Surely I don't even respond to what the shame has already come to me, so I don't see if I can talk about anything at the moment, I will release God because I don't have anything to take my face for what happened, that is, I have reminded me," said Jini Kabula where he was informed about who has a record, he answered that he is a player of Yanga team without mentioning the name. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1648 arrow
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_32250947 Professor Ole Gabriel: The agricultural sector savior in the youth sector in the country has been a savior in the employment of the youth by 81.18 percent was compared to another sector where the number of youths according to the census of people and a resident of 2012 are 16.2 million youths, while the number of young people with 8.3 million people and 7.9 million young people were called by the non-governmental organization of TnoServe under the project of strengthening the youth development of the villages through business (STRYou). While explaining the distribution of employment to the youth in the country, Professor Ole Gabriel has said that the public sector in the country has employed 188,000 youths, the private sector 1,027,000 youths who understand themselves are 1,100,000. Professor Ole Gabriel has said that the institution of KnoServe through its STRYES project has come up with a strategy that has given priority to many youths and give them education to discover themselves so as to change their culture of thinking they can take advantage of the economic opportunities available in their areas. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In lifting the young people, Professor Ole Gabriel has said that a human being has two main parts which are a big part (body) and a place that deals with ideas that helps a human being in improving his life together with his community. "We deal with a real part of the cuts and it is important, that you will protect the youth and the nation," said Professor Ole Gabriel. Following those main parts of the human being, the TnoServe Institute has been the forefront to ensure it allows the youth to know and use the opportunities that they have by changing their thoughts in work. Professor Ole Gabriel has congratulated the novServe through its STRYou project to uplift the youth and change their system of life that is something to be followed and proud. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1331 EXAMPLE _OFgeometric shapes
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_54342041 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The big scars were left in Kapedo but peace will benefit from Kapedo in the border of Baringo county and Turas making headlines this year making headlines in the year 2014 after the assailment of shooting and killing 19 soldiers of the regime. This prompted the government to start being addressed to taking illegal weapons among the breeders in the area where more than 24 guns were sent. However, despite the security to enhance security in the area, the locals still lack losses while claiming that security officers who were running the activity destroyed their property and traesa the locals who have spoken to the nation today in a tour of the area last week they told them they passed through the hands of the officers during the peak of that activity. The officers were also looking for guns that were sent from the officers that were killed. Locals complained that most of the innocent people were killed, their livestock killed by brutal bullets and their shops being stabbed by the officers. "The government would take action from suspects instead of punishing people who are not guilty. Many of us are now living in poor environment after our headquarters is spearheaded, "said Mister Natan Loyeleis, host of Chesakam area. Business people at the Chemolingot business center in Tiaty, are concerned that their businesses have not been resolved after the activity, since their products were stolen and others were burnt by the officers. Mister Paul Lotudo, one of the business people, says that he lost more than 700,000 shillings during that operation after his overall store was reduced. "We were surprised how legitimate business such as these are being used by the theft of livestock. The operation that it had been the economy of the Pok community he said. The locals said that the return to the area lak that the peace of Tm if the ones that lost the stations are overwhelmed so as to renew it. Mr Napang'ole Lukwaso business of livestock in the gullaby says that he was 2 million shillings during ope according to the Ribkwo / Kositei, the officers voted in the ninth and created 240 more than 50 shops at the time. He mentioned the areas that were killed such as Che Naudo, Rio'o, Chesitet, Akbutatis while madu Buholingot and Nginyan "why all our livestock have decided to live with our neighbors but oper affected a lot from the economy is livestock," said Mister Here's President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kapedo after the flowers ordered that operation "I'm here today for the officers who were the most of the names of those who killed the officers. The government is here and stern measures will be taken to those who broke the law, "said Mister Kenyatta who is seen with anger. Most of the pollution reports, theft and torture of the hosts emerged for the first time, the former inspector general of police David Kimaiyo claimed that the animals were killed following a shot of bullets between security officers and assailants of Pokot. The KDF who accused the operation also denied the claims of their officers being involved in the violence despite complaints. In a press release at the time, KDF denied claiming that his officers had already left the areas mentioned where theft and suffering were reported. The locals also complained that the officers left them in the area which they said they recently killed three children who were caught up on livestock. The 19 officers who were killed were heading to the process of carrying a car that had been burnt in the incident earlier in the area of the departments near Kapedo. The security situation for now has been strengthened in Kapedo area following many months of peaceful meetings led by leaders and athletes from the Ufa Valley. The investigation conducted by the National Today in the region noted that the Tunisian communities as they live on the same way are now living with a tweet @ ke.nationmedia.com "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_89068040 From Mwanza province heading to Mwanza province where the district commissioner of Mbulu, Anatory chola has said that the district has started offering food for support together with agricultural tools because there are the community of Wahadzabe, the price for starting the agricultural activities including the implementation of the directive by President Jakaya Kikwete has urged the community to be helped to change his life system by depending on the wildlife and the collection of fruits on the left is benja Mwaipaja and that is his report. In this area of Yaeda valley under Mbulu district in Manyara province, I have lived in the small tribe and they are starting from which since the past decades, their lives depends on the wildlife Noble fruits As the years went to the community to be met with severe famine every year and take them to escape this as their daily food due to their disappearance in their area are fruits and after the words being attacked by poaching, farmers and breeders killed them. Gidabuday Diamond is at the local government's seat of the valley this week, Iddi under a drought Especially considering the community especially of live They are people who don't have food because there is no food. The possibility of the tweet The workshop to get in their way except that they depend on fruits and fruits, ensure that there is a result of the results of Mbulu, Anatory chola has told other things the plan that the government are not convinced in public suspects. Every household needs to find two other options for wife and husband So we can't start that you usually start to take them down and we are expecting to go down again in the ward A week Therefore we congratulated the very government to the secretary general and we are overseeing to ensure that now our brothers are here. They turn out to have turned out to their lives. From collecting fruit and intimidation It helps farmers some of the residents of the area and reflect on how to start a new farming life instead of owning a inde and candale as a source of living living every day they congratulated the government for the program thanks to the government to help us from the second time. And we are thankful Helping food support Does And so on The statistics show that its punishment is one of the tribes with a small number of people including the number of people to reach one health where between three hundred and four hundred thousand depending on them. Mi Ben Mwaipaja:
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_44989699 You were heard yesterday we saw the games. Ehr I hear and also games. Last night it wasn't okay when there was a ball yesterday night Bana have seen what they want. That's the night AHH did not see Shot the Team have? As usual, overseas teams are the same as I went to see the ball I got from things and seven at night mym mym ehhe ehhe but it was so cool that you have got even the result of this nine o'clock when I wanted to know because mi told you or it is your responsibilities to know. AHH yesterday in his chi. At seven o'clock at the same time, I can't stay up to see if he sees the ball it doesn't know how I can't stay Bana now, you see how many times do you know how many times do you even know how many teams do you have. Twitter lt; hes tgt; even I cannot stay in the judge I didn't see mym ehhe is not the first and as the ehormi is not a fan. Ehr so we should not say not a fan of the ball or It's the same, however, you know I don't know what we support the overseas teams than the phones. That's obvious to Kenya I cannot stay away and check a check of Kenya I can take a look at the weeks but Kenya NOMA halo completely Ehr This is the same way the in-laws in-laws must go.
query1230 spoon utensils
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_28213347 Twitter lt; unk, gt; Twitter lt; unk, gt; The farming or computer was not about two until this time climbing in the middle. That child I don't think kibanda and Saed Kubenea have done very well in America, we started going to go well. They would be depending on the goalkeeper, equal in the middle. He has succeeded. To take the pick up to these hours we have lost the ball here is that the football team is one of the five members of parliament that will increase others as well as they will be faced with the problem until this time that bricks try to Simba and two there was Yanga called Kevin tooth is a must for pregnancy is important To know the second side cannot mind Madimba Saying this What does it do It doesn't matter that is the presentation of Kigamboni to ease as here we see until today, two leaders He was carrying Betty We didn't believe but Simba's match has met. The result regardless of our religion? Should be released. Name I remember that Diamond, the truth has been prepared and what we see here is a certain ignorance like those who have played the ball that you deserve in the middle to front, there's nothing that is called to buy their cars, why I don't understand what an explosion would get to go ahead, because I don't understand why you don't understand where you don't understand where you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you We cannot say that they wear as men every day they will share The left is not possible even a barrel there is a rich one, it is impossible for our players to say and are encouraged by our team, it has a lot of limitations, let us say that Simba bought a match I don't know what we are being given by the capacity Solution we should never stop them. You will be faced by Simba because I was Pima we cannot see why. He has been delayed, we have agreed that we have been blocked, we have been blocked because it is lucky that the red card is asking them that the red card is legitimate because compared to the hands they don't want to hear. And that the German is a very little child to talk about something he has come here and don't know anything even that tivoli told you we have a small child to do so today I try to suggest today when I lost three points. I am called for a certain story for peace and I am here to look at Simba and Yanga that is a very big lover of how many times that I have been so much today to be beaten as we play the ball is very bitter but with the leaders of the Dowans have requested to come up this is not the end that the league is still hard not to continue having unity, let me think we shall take the championship because when we live there is no two. In addition, the coach wanted to defend early it will be water until the end, you know the bad reason even how many times he hate people from finishing the prosecution until he was thanking the players. I hadn't met Simba and Yanga, they are considering whether their interests are quoted as the day of their crops as they enter when they do not know that they will not be affected, they know that it is an Indian that could not be preceded because they could not return because the first thing they think about. The ball before it has not started, they are coming with something like a coffin, you can think of these people, maybe they have killed someone or has faith of witchcraft, but it is a matter if you have Mapunda still gets something that makes Yanga believe that they are jailed but it has not been written about God's words. A tweet
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_57563144 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. SUMATRA-CCC warned passengers being suspended from the buses "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. October 12, 2016 2 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Advisory Council of the consumer and Marine Services Agency (SUMATRA CCC) have warned the behavior of some of the drivers of the buses parking lot more than the number of seats because, it contributes to insurance companies to fail to pay as passengers when road accidents occur. It has also advised the existence of a special tool that will fund the treatment of passengers who will have received road accidents so as to ease the discomfort, especially those who don't know the law to claim their compensation soon after recovery. While speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the education officer of Summer CCC, Nicholous Kinyingly, said the action of passengers allowing the driver to parking more than the number of chairs that are in the transport vessel they use to get their right to compensation when it comes to accidents. He said there are some drivers and conductors of the buses have had a habit of filling passengers to continue the number of seats, a situation that contributes to passengers to miss their rights by failing to be paid for compensation. "So that the passengers can be paid compensation and the insurance company when it comes to road accidents, it is a must the owner of the vessel to give a report to the insurance company that he got in his bus within 24 to 48 hours and more than that, the right will be lost, therefore the passengers failed to be paid compensation and insurance and that responsibility remained with a person," he said. He said because Sumatran CCC is the vessel with the responsibility of defending the buses, it should be understood that the law is not allowed the owner, the driver or the conductor to stop the passengers on the bus and who will take a legal action to be eaten against him. In addition, he said the road safety law that is used is for a long time since 1973, therefore, there is a need for the government to be using the appeal so that it can go hand in line with the current situation in line with enabling them to punish passengers who will be found in the bus, the owner will allow his car to stop passengers and the driver and the conductor who will be in that bus. While explaining about the presence of a special body that will fund the treatment to the passengers who will be getting on the road, he said there are some of the casualties because their rights have been lost their rights of being overwhelmed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_43308376 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Wall of four injured families of one family "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Pate Siyame, Sumbawanga "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 13 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Four families of one family and the residents of the Red Cross that is in the Lake Region, Rukwa Province, have been injured after falling on the wall of the house they were lying on. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The wall of that house fell due to the heavy rains accompanied by strong winds that poured in the night before yesterday. In addition, 23 houses have been destroyed by the rains that lasted for two hours while leaving several families having no shelter. Speaking to this newspaper through the phone, the head of Sumbawanga District, Doctor Halfield Haule said that the rains that began to fall for two hours starting from four o'clock at night before the day before yesterday that brought confusion to the residents of that village. While expounding, he said that in that event, the storm broke the roof of 10 houses, while seven houses have collapsed and six walls have collapsed and six walls have gone down where the number of livestock including chicken and duck was not known immediately. "Four children of one family have been injured after falling on the wall of the house where they were lying and all were admitted to the health center for treatment and have been allowed," said Doctor Haule. He added that 22 families had more than one house in that village where they have moved to their houses which were not affected by the rains while continuing to repair the quicker. "Except that he is a widow whose house of grass has been married by the storm, he is living with neighbors, too as the government we have given us a global donation of maize and the beans," he explained. He said he arrived in that village and witnessed the damage caused by the rains, while the team of experts continues with an evaluation to identify the losses caused by the rains. Rukwa Regional Police Commander, George Kyando, has confirmed the occurrence of the disaster, but said there is no one who died in that incident. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_78260630 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The PPF Tower building burning in Dar es Salaam city today. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Reports indicate that the electricity problem that happened at the communication machinery that is in the 11th room, which is above, at the end of the building of the PPF which is in the junction of Ohio / Garden Ava, in the middle of Dar es Salaam city is the one that caused the fire this morning at around one hour, causing the building collapse. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It was reported that the security guards witnessed severe smoke in the floor of the apartment building, when they released a report to the whole-fire forces. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The aggression squad was praised at a time in the concerned area and had a tool in the building to set up to a ten-floor apartment, short-fire balls so as to get water into the fire room, stopped the efforts of taking off the fire. However, the efforts made by the squad have been successful to put off the fire completely at a speed of five hours a defect. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Police are in the area so as to protect their property not to be destroyed or destroyed by rape. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There is no immediate effect on the human being that were reported. The value of the loss caused by the fire is not known. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1718 clap applaud
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_60625856 Twitter lt; hes tgt; officially know I went to the mother When he told me where he told me what I was okay not, we will only see it, that is even if you write to this one white man. I went to I went for why I was going to take a patient then I go to another to tell me my phone we should be just the words he told me of the doors. The same as I went for now. Mi told me that if the words seem. Ok, not we will talk And then and I asked him only the one that made me tell me it is the Story only he is playing but he does not have two hundred thousand. Mym
query1728 temporary work
query3736 fugitives person escaping from the law or pursuer
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_29837440 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The parliament passes the financial law bill for the year 2016, the parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania today has passed the financial bill of the year 2016 so as to enable the implementation of the budget for the government for the financial year 2016 / 2017. That bill has been passed by parliament together with its amendments that have been given by the permanent parliamentary committee of the budget and parliamentarians. The amendments that took place in that bill is together with not adding tax to bring in industrial sugar from 10 percent to 15 whereby the permanent parliamentary committee of the budget advised the government to not continue with the proposal due to that action to have an impact on industries that use sugar industries such as natural resources to produce other products like juice and soda. The government has accepted a proposal given by the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on the budget of not adding tax for production of industrial sugar from 10 percent to 15 percent, thus continuing to charge 10 percent of the budget for this financial year, Twitter clarified the Minister of Finance and Planning, Honorable. Doctor. Philip Mpango. Other adjustments that were done include removing the punishment for six months for those who will not claim receipts after buying products or services and remained with a punishment of paying a fine according to the value of products. Moreover, Honorable. The plan has said that the bill has put in a large extent to the recommendations of various stakeholders including members of parliament, industry owners, traders and government institutions. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53194580 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Chelsea invests in West Brom in London "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. December 11, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Chelsea team the day before yesterday was arrested by West Brom, after being forced to a 2-2 draw at the Stanford Bridge Stadium in London, Chelsea was the first to get a goal in the 45 minute that was scored by Samuel Eto'o that went for a second half. The second half West Brom came up and where Shane Long scored for the team after scoring a goal in the 68 minute. Chelsea went to a second goal in the 68 minute by the striker Claudio Yacob, which seemed like a victory for West Brom. While the fans thought Chelsea will leave the pitch down, Eden Hazard saved the team after scoring through a penalty kick in the 90th minute. In those results, Chelsea has gone to the fourth position in the league standings that was expected to continue again yesterday night where Manchester United had battered Arsenal. Chelsea: PETR Cech, Ivanovic, Cahill, Terry, Azpilicueta, Rather, Lampard, Willian, Oscar, Hazard and Eto'o. West Brom: Myhill, Reid, McAuley, Olsson, Ridgewell, Yacob, Mullen, Amalfitano, Sessegnon, Brunt and Long. In other matches of that league, Liverpool got a big victory of 4-0 goals against Fullham. And Aston Villa beat Cardif 2-0, while Southwest Won Hull City 4-1 and Crystal Palace teams were drawn. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_57135335 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Netball in Ruvuma. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 02 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ruvuma Province police teams and Songea Municipality next season will participate in the First Division League competition after planting a bridge. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the deputy chairperson of the netball Association Tanzania (Chaneta), Zainabu Mbiro, Ruvuma and the municipality are the only ones that participated in the second class competition, which were involved in involving eight teams. He said that the competition was expected to involve eight teams, but instead they were raised in the bridge. Mbiro said that the First Division League competition last season involved a total of 17 teams, but the next season they organized to involve 24 teams. The teams of Mara Queens, Gift of Moshi, Tamisemi of Dodoma, the revolution of Dodoma, coalition Mbozi and Njombe town. Moreover, he said that the national cup competitions are scheduled to take place in Mbeya later this year. However, he said that the full date for the competition will be known after the session of the executive committee that is expected to take place tomorrow in Dar es Salaam city. At the same time, the netball competition of the United Republic will start in Dar es Salaam city on Saturday at the cigarettes grounds. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_57554262 Leadership The leadership first would like to thank the new leadership. They usually don't like ten and fourth for Jamal Malinzi He led it well But those who Board members have failed to implement leadership? Like to export no search for talent They go to the streets in rural areas, they don't know My view No reason for god of admitting to insult what we are going on. Welcome Thank you so much called gold Mi would like to talk about Musa In our country of Tanzania, many people we love and Bush Now it becomes a feminist, which is not suitable here in the country, if we need to be based on sports things then if we get bribes it will be available for example which comes to the registration thing they prepare for the clubs of different teams. Simba Yanga Azam FC, all the clubs causes that directly, to register people who are not concerned, they are not well known for example, you see that you don't want maybe in the stage of United itself, we have been able to give five veteran people from thirty years to five years they will cause these people to play football well so that the young nation is talking about coaches coming back. We have moved back to Tanzania, we will take a high cost to buy a coach to get out of foreign countries. To come to look at how these people who come to critics are the people who don't pay them so I see how I see these national football coaches. The improvement in order to go is even ourselves, they can teach people from different clubs below for example if you look at Ndanda. Ndanda after being beaten five goals during the vodacom league were the coach to dismiss him and which is a priority quickly thanks for me. Very Good. Time For some time, it is not a friend is the one that agreed, let's go to the end of AIDS, let's find it. What should happen we have opened for all these reasons, we will take the stadium players lack of sports education at the moment we're going to the end, I managed the tax that I managed to enjoy it. He was ready For prayer, what should be done first I will start soccer athletics Ok if you look at a person who did the athletics for the second time, the second is a beats by. Yes, he is on the right now let left bureaucracy in the issue of going to choose people So it's a certain person because of this every day he is there or because you know you will get twenty percent of them when the important squad even in the leadership of you can choose. Elections are taking place to stop corruption not to stop the laws that go against the leader And also a leader who is elected to be a leader who is right now there is someone who has always thinks but this has been a problem. So we also look at a lot of corruption and bureaucracy. Leave it out but the Syrian mid-fielder is facing a good person that what should be done to solve the problem is that I will talk about two things The first is the issue of leadership then the second issue is the issue of patriotism That we want our games and let us go far, we must be with vision leaders The leaders of seeing that he did not have bitterness for our country to see that after five or ten years, our national team is doing well and secondly, the whole issue of sponsorship to have enough sponsorship in all the games we see in our country and the sponsorship was very difficult to see the fans seeing them today they have not received good results if there will be a good team that will be able to get a good team, but we want to get a good team that will be allowed to reach the next year but we want to get a good team that will be respected more than the elder person to set aside time for the desert fans. Twitter lt; unk, gt; as Sadik they love their team and they agreed to be patient and we will do better in the games Santa
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_21960589 Coaches but I am told the maslai will look at their qualifications if he will help him from see who about five Tweane but only when we took that, he does not have one point when you have a new coach The reason for the drop will be plus You will find Toba So Many of them will be viewed There is a second one who is being prosecuted as the Federation? We must look for a lot to care for you too. We will look at a lot of differences and that will be constructed but there are some people you will find and tell us that this month will be able to be predicted to look at the side of the race to meet all the races they gave a report yesterday different and we agree with the coaches who or Chana but very big but the reality She looks at a bit of his ability We must know of three Probabs not to have enough time to do even in the return of one month to talk. That the father will do it because there are others now he has been doing well in the studies but in this budget, you may not have them to help where but if you said the challenge coaches from Kenya and Uganda who will be patriotic in a panel that will be able to filter out the subject that five teachers are yet to leave first. That's something that is looking forward The meaning that in the Alliance Academy together with their championship and there are still many things in the front of the construction of the hall, the fourth teacher of titles I had not talked to him at this time to come at the funeral of the coach, he was the assistant coach of every nation at the festival he spoke to that in one of the children in the era that he is following the lunch and a great opportunity for many youths. There For this time, we will be able to stay with the panel of today's people is a chorus
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58169791 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We are waiting for a budget with answers to Jun 06, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The next week, on Thursday, June 14, Minister of Finance, Doctor. William Mgimwa is expected to present the national budget for the financial year 2012 / 2013. This will be the seventh budget since President Jakaya Kikwete entered power in the year 2005. It will be a budget that makes the previous budget before President Kikwete to leave power according to the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania. But this will also be the second budget for the second term of President Kikwete. In all the past six budgets, as usual, they have been successful and it can be explained to have been contributed to the weaknesses that have emerged in the management of those budgets. It is possible, the weaknesses or stability in the previous budget has been contributed in a certain way by ministers of the concerned funds or even some of the government officials and sponsors of the budget. It is our expectations that, the vulnerability in the past six budget will be used as a class to learn and strengthen the seventh budget which will be the first budget for the new finance minister, Doctor. William Mgimwa But on the other hand, the strength of the previous budget in some areas of implementation will be used as a criterion to continue improving this budget. It is our expectations, this budget will give solutions to many non-economic problems in the country. It is our expectations, the budget that will promote new revenue sources and will reduce tax exemptions too. The biggest one is that, we hope that this budget will put strategies to control the inflation of important products in the country. Meaning, it will be a budget for the citizens. On the other hand, we expect this budget to focus on the advice of the executive council of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) wanting the value added tax (VAT) to be withdrawn from food. Furthermore, we hope the budget will focus on another advice with the interests of the nation from other political parties and other private institutions in the country. Basically, we are expecting a budget with satisfactory answers about the problems that make the economy of our country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25186414 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He shares poisoning in order to kill her from speaking in part of Zake. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A Brazilian woman has been arraigned in court following his attempt to kill her husband by putting poison in his secret places and then demanded her husband to visit his secret places before they are doing the act of marriage. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A 43-year-old husband, a resident of Sao Jose do Rio Preto in Brazil, decided to take his wife after he survived an attempted coup attempt by his wife's secrets. Read more below: "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The report also said that the woman whose name has been put in his arms, he took poison in his secret places and then threatened her husband to make love. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That woman so as to complete his intention of killing her husband, he wanted her husband to deliver his secret places before they begin the marriage act. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But her husband was in an attempt to complete the request of his wife, he was shocked to hear a surprise smell from the secrets of his wife. He denied the exercise and took his wife and took him to the hospital where doctors had done tests and discovered that his wife took the things with severe poison in his secret places. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The husband of that woman has press his wife to court following his attempt to kill him. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3018 axe tool
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_44041436 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 13 November 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Premier League Board is in Mbeya City. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Neema Ndugulile the Mbeya City team has been fined shillings. 500,000 and the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPL Board) and given a stern warning to his U20 team not playing the introduction match when they played with Yanga. Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the information officer of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) who is also the acting secretary general of that federation, Boniface Wambura said that Mbeya City are required to pay the cost of destruction, after their fans broke the glass of the Yanga bus, after those costs were confirmed by that board. "Also Mbeya City has been fined shillings. 500,000 for his fans attacking the players of Tanzania Prisons, after the match against them and paying the cost of destruction after the confirmation of the league board, "said Wambura. He Said the Coastal Union has been fined shillings. 500,000 due to the violence of his fans played with Azam at the Mkwakwani Stadium where the assistant referee, Hassan Zani was attacked with stones and injured in the head, the incident that caused the game to stand for three minutes. Wambura said the Coastal Union defender, Hamad Khamis has been fined shillings. 500,000 for beating him intentionally Kipre Tchetche of Azam. "That action made the referee to give him out of a red card, therefore he will miss the next three matches of his team. "And Simba have been fined shillings. 500,000 due to the violence of his fans during the match against Kagera Sugar, "said Wambura. He said all the penalties have been issued in accordance with the regulations. Also the league board has postponed the decision of the match between Stand United and Kanembwa JKT that was played at Kambarage Stadium, so as to collect more information. The match did not end. League Board will meet again on Sunday. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2958 albino person
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_93566746 Mbowe, Lipumba, Mbatia in trouble Jul 24, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In a step that will destroy the opposition leaders, several members of parliament of that camp are in the run to run, Good Citizen has been told. The members of parliament are expected to relocate their current parties and join the new opposition party anytime from the end of the Special Constitutional Assembly (BMK), reports say. Many of the members of parliament are coming from the provinces of the Lake Region, North, East and Lake West and this newspaper has been told that the decisions have already been done, the rest is the event itself. The party is mentioned to move to the members of parliament is what Alliance for Change and Transparency (ACT) that is associated with the member of parliament of Kigoma North (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe. Zitto himself has not moved to the party but one of his political allies, Samson aaon, has already joined the ACT and has already started doing political tours in some regions. This newspaper has been given names already of some of the members of parliament who will go to their current parties but for special reasons, these names will not be mentioned now. One of the members of parliament who are expected to move to ACT has spoken to this newspaper at the end of last week and has confirmed that he will make sure after the completion of his parliamentary term; that is after the official violation of this parliament in the year. "I leave. If our country would have been allowed a non-Cross (moving to another party) without losing his parliamentary seat, I would have already left. But I can't leave it now. "I left, first I will miss the opportunity to participate in the process of creating a new constitution of Tanzania and also contribute to national issues through the parliamentary debates. "Then there is an issue of income too. ACT is a new party and doesn't have any source of revenue. As a member of parliament I will continue to get my salary and also contribute to my party. It is wise to remain in the first parliamentary, "said the member of parliament. Parties which are expecting to lose its members of parliament is the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) and NCCR-Evolution, while it was alleged that the Civic United Front (CUF) can only lose some of its members of Tanzania Mainland with strong influence in the provinces. Mwema should have been told that the step of some of the leaders of CHADEMA in some of the provinces to announce the withdrawal of the party at the moment, is part of the planned program of people to leave the step by step. One of the leaders who released the level is the former chairman of CHADEMA in Kigoma province, Jaffar Kasisiko, the former chairperson of CHADEMA, Western Region, Shabaab affairs and the secretary of CHADEMA in Kigoma province, Msafiri Malawians. Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam city at the end of last week, the chairman of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe said that they have rumors that there are other leaders of that party who are preparing to leave. However, this newspaper knows that the picture of which members of parliament will leave the opposition parties will be known more after the special assembly of the constitution where there are some who will start showing their intentions. "The ACT have a great secret and it will start to be open from after BMK. After that there will be less than four meetings before the parliament was broken. Waiting for the first to BMK, "said another member of parliament who has been mentioned to relocate but not wanted to be involved in the ACT in the current step. "Brother, and I urge you to know my name or use my picture in your newspaper. Do you do it completely. First am surprised how these things have come. I know it's..... (the name is stored) is the one to tell you, "said the current member of parliament. But many of the members of parliament and politicians who are expected to ACT have been mentioned as youths who see that their political life in that party will be easy than in parties that are running ready. While the member of parliament speaking to Good Citizen, he was a young man who is engaged in politics in universities who told the author of this newspaper that he will go to ACT as soon as "cannot lie in a bus that is full" - meaning the other political parties here in the country. The efforts of this newspaper wants to speak and on the way to get sure if they are expecting to get members of parliament failed after that politician who was once the leader of CHADEMA said nothing. "I actually hear the news like you but I don't know anything. We are building a party and if there are people who believe in what we want to do, we will welcome them. But there is nothing until now, "said the politician. Zitto was not available to give his opinion because he is on the way outside the country for his parliamentary activities. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_90496747 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rangers has been promised to participate in CAF, and John Magufuli of the Post Rangers have proven enough funding if they represent Kenya in the Federation Cup (CAF Confederations Cup) at the GOTV Shield title. Speaking with yesterday one day after the club qualify for this year's GOTV Shield Cup, the club's chief executive officer, John Tanui said he is hopeful that the squad that emerged with a 10-9 victory against Western Stima through a penalty shootout after the match ended they have not joined. "Tul i J calls for the GOTV competition with the aim of winning the championship and represent Kenya in the continent and we are ready to fulfill that dream," added Tanui. "We will give our players funding for this time they are preparing to meet Softaka fainstalin," he added. "Post Corporation of Kenya is behind this team and we will make sure that all players are treated well than previously. At the same time, AFC Leopards executive secretary, Timothy Lilumbi has appointed the club's fans following allegations that they killed the violence and sparked a half-finals of the GOTV, on Monday. The hardest fans bombed each other's equipment and destroyed the Wimbledon players as well as the personal name of their defender James Situma. Lilumbi said that those who were involved in the violence is not the real Leopards fans but they were hooligans. "Those who were not our; our fans will not destroy the bus that they have made money bought, the fans of our club can't stop the players. They called for peace on Monday are people who may have been arrested by our enemies. "It is the work of the police to arrest criminals and take them to court," added Lilumbi. "We as a club we strongly condemn such acts, and all those involved should be arrested. We give condolences to the people who hurt the time of chaos, he added. Several people were hurt after dealing with police officers after Softaka scored the second goal in five minutes the match ended. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_19864357 Specialist doctors at Muhumbili National Hospital has met and held a meeting with the executive director of that hospital, guarantee Marina Njanced to sell us together with other things to strike some of the doctors who are going on in the hospital and formed a special committee for the purpose of meeting with Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, on the left Knowledge has organized the following report. Muhumbili National policy arriving here to meet with the management of the hospital to discuss several issues including the ongoing strike in the hospital. In that meeting that journalists were not required to participate in the hall for approximately three hours where these doctors came from journalists to get what was being discussed inside the meeting with patience, I got an opportunity to visit the emergency services unit at Muhimbili National Hospital where doctors from the army of the citizens of Tanzania, Tanzania, Tanzania, Tanzania and Tanzania. I also managed to pass through some hospitals and get opinions from some of the patients in Tanga. Shamin Khan work to tell us once the service is not mentioned. Why UDOM they get that ahead of your minute Take a take into consideration that they are going to be punished, I don't know Let's go, we continue to suffer just and let us explain us. Twitter lt; unk, gt; the statement begins with the doctors who came out to advise that they should have a heart of patriotism for the reason? Actually, there is a conflict but wahenga is saying that there is no long time without the object, I think this will end up to the end, because Aligaesha is a spokesperson of the National Hospital on Muhumbili National Hospital to know what was caused by specialist doctors and leadership of Muhumbili National Hospital. The executive director saw that it is good for Pakistan. Specialist doctors and doctors Taken to Muhumbili Education to talk just a few things about this. And he had to get a good opportunity to talk to them So the son is good for the meeting to be at least. In order to see what they are with. What is it? Truly our soldier of the exhibition of suggested that truly a good story And it's not flattering. So why they saw it best to stay on the table with the government There are ways that you can solve the conflict so that more activities in the normal state today to improve and let us work as usual while refusing to now get eggs and patients continuing to wait for services although the number of patients appeared to be not normal At the same time, the party of the employees of the central government and health TUGHE has issued a statement urging the government to hold talks with the chosen committee of doctors and nurses so as to end the differences. And aurora Uledi Mussa
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_67814184 Parents and guardians of children with disabilities of events to stop the habit of keeping their children in their homes a question taking them to a special school and a panel. To get an education that will help to solve the environment and keep in life in the future days a report of being read is read The plea was made on behalf of the community welfare and the officer from the ministry of health and welfare of the ministry of health and welfare of the community of health and welfare of the children with disabilities, Mrs. Margaret malunda in the here is the first of six graduates of class seven with mental disabilities at the Kigamboni primary school in the city. He has said that in developing the equality of education to children including disability, the government has started the provision of education that is usually given to confusing the children with disabilities and non-disability in one school so that the disabled children cannot help their disabled colleagues. A special government of your current system Which is given to children with disabilities, I see children who have these children want angels and that they have the disabled children can help children with disabilities. What but an academic And the community in general Of Students with disability participants at the level of education that they have the ability to learn Even if it is not to see what they want but the level of what children themselves are decided Sorry From the outskirts of Robert Chanel ten
query1424 library books
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_94253600 Three women sitting in the streets claiming they had stolen their phones went to the main police station in the city to enter the report and were being questioned by one police of those who gave a knife and attacked them. And others throwing down the oil officers before being swept away by the commander. The words he said the station is on fire and two police officers were injured and admitted to the hospital. Ehhe fatty m Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; Three At four o'clock in the morning, women with the buzui arrived at the main police station to report Their phones are stolen While the officers were questioning about the place the incident happened one of them immediately gave a knife and the others bombed the traditional gas. The station was fire and the police responded and attacked them by shooting and killed the two officers were injured, the police commander did not give more details or said what the group thought was involved in the attack, a special bomb had been taken to undo the previous bombings. The prisoners that are being held for various crimes in the center have been transferred to other stations, Kubenea was discovered that the girls had a plan to save one picture of the special police force. Up to reports of eating claimed responsibility for the attack, al-Shabaab has been claiming such attacks in the country by boat from other parts of Kenya while eating BoT in Latin America.
query2015 ghost spirit
query2017 lawyer
query2011 peace harmony Muslim
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_89574823 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The former mid-fielder Simba agoma to sign Dar es Salaam. The former mid-fielder of Simba, citizens of Burundi, Pierre Kwesingabo has refused to sign a new contract to play for Rayon Sports at the end of the season and said that his mind is to play for Simba or any team. Speaking to the New Times of Rwanda, the mid-fielder said: "I don't want to add another contract, I want to leave my contract it ends. The leadership of the club has not following me asking me about my contract. "The player, joined Rayon Sports, January 2015 for an 18 month contract from Simba of Tanzania. When he was asked about that player, the president of the club, Dennis Gacinya said they will talk to Kwizera. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_28212183 But this topic has touched me a lot. Meaning he started before talking to mi I would have the ability to interfere with the presentation But that's what we love with all the time to join us Behind the reporter not to be written in BoT But the vodom they have invested for a long time now my age may use knowing that now I am going to danger Zone. Tanzanians in the new we were heading to the Pentagon still this investment comes down, coming down in Dar es Salaam only, that is everything in class because I gave a clinic in Mwanza town. We have failed to invest today, and we see a lot of rumors that he has done for Site many years and two of my age, I have fifty years and two years, we have been very similar to the investment that I can come to invest first to tell the citizens that I can invest in Madrid and help us this Bana money to prepare. I have bought my phone with vodacom. Coming down, you are buying a Tigo network that we can be first together in the use of voting We have been delayed because they are successful. Despite the use we have gone to the end, we are coming to come up with several reasons, we are bidding farewell to Tanzanians now, we woke up, then we should go up with great speed, let's go to the international standard, we pay the Tanzanians I have sent messages on them. That we need to know you only to invest in medicine everything else this week will tell you that there is a explain to you. My very few words are honorable.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53577163 Environment asks: It's eating, I will only look for us first, there are players playing with him And then let me say something like sanitation? Now problem is t _ v unless it was a unity Fashion even needs t _ v and I have never seen _ v not it's just a place like the other day before the other day before the day before yesterday, I have not got to come up with you, how you have to use AHH yes I was a good person What I left is seven hours I will tell you that it is not just a good thing we should be, but I get away from the way I will tell you what is the first one another time, but and we have other hours you crush that you will tell you that you are going to air once again. I am trying to tell me that there is something where you are in this world, if it is something we can ota Okay I will do a plan and then I'll tell me I am not the one that tells me not. What is not we will have to end up and now not you try to bring. AHH or tell me a man if they take over Aai is not now to have to now even if I am on the same way, I am not good to get a good artist even if you have never forgotten. How do you know that you have gone to it. Twitter lt; hes tgt; I don't have bad things to be if you have gone to the night I was doing so that is the Prophet tomorrow or Sato AHH above, let me know that there is no Doubt about why again. AHH we do right now I will tell me the truth no you don't change the maize but I will tell you about it and this is cool to be stupid The same doesn't have problems because you have been afraid, I had.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_70182308 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Doctor Pepper paying Paannounced 1.7 billion to buy the company's logo which ends the life of Coca and Pepsi, Doctor Pepper Snapple Group are buying bai Brands, one of the type of water a drink with a good flavor that is making in the United States, the purchase is a sum of 1.7 billion pounds. The deal for the purchase of bai will be a major commercial threat to Coca-Cola and Pepsi, in a deal that could lead to a drop in the sale of soda from various researches of the health threat to consumers. Various scientists show that the use of soda can continue to decrease because of the type of chemicals that are used to produce soda and due to those researchers, the water company can make a big business profit. The bai company has made a profit of a sum of 120 million English pounds as sales last year, the sales can rise up to 300 million English pounds. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Justin Timberman Bai's company is expected to grow more in the next year after the arrival of that purchase, says his spokesperson, Justin Timberits. Timberlake is joining the company bai as an investor and the chief executive officer of the company, the company announced last month. He has said that they will be used a sum of 100 million English pounds in advertising more that product through the marketing unit where the company will officially be launched in the year 2017. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_71415877 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The disease blocked Kikwete to bury Sata Nov 14, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Former President of Zambia, Michael Sata, has been buried on Tuesday this week in Zambia without his companion, President Jakaya Kikwete, who has been admitted in the United States receiving treatment of male gland cancer. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Close leaders of the countries that are in the economy of the Southern African Community (SADC) attended the event and if it was a disease, according to the Minister of Labor and Employment, Gaudentia Kabaka, Kikwete would attend the event as well. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kabaka witnessed the closeness of Kikwete and Sata during the meeting of leaders of African countries and Japan that took place in the city of Yokrelocate, June last year where he remained close to them. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Whenever an appearance, Kikwete and Sata were flirting with laughing together. You know that all have been born in humor and its results some of the other presidents were left to greet them. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53001868 South Africa is planning a better life in the village of Lsupported Mbozi, Jul 24, 2013 by Good Citizen in News "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The invitation was born or Uyole, 03, as explained professionally, it is a type of beans in Mbeya province, but to the citizens of Lsupported village in Mbozi district, it is a name that is treated for livestock and even their houses to live. The wave of the villagers to give livestock and their houses the name of that type of beans are coming from some of them buying cows or building houses due to the money they got after selling those beans. The popularity of the beans, the type of beans has emerged as a sudden after the recovery of a reliable market in South Africa where the farmers of the French county through their groups have gone into a contract with one company from that country that requires the beans. The needs of the company from South Africa is 5,000 tons of beans for the year and according to the chairman of the Association of Cooperatives (AMCOS) of that village, those needs have resulted from the company being given a tender with their government to feed the school in that country. The market of the beans has been found through a special program to connect farmers and markets of beans and maize which is known in short of Sapphire. Sapphire is one of the programs that are implemented under the project of developing maize and Maharage using a way that does not involve the soil and markets in Mbeya Region, being implemented through the sponsorship of the African Revolution (AGRA- Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa). The program which in English is known as "Intensifying maize and beans Production Through improved soil health and marketing in Mbeya Region," it is also involved with good farming for maize and beans, including the use of good seeds to the area, the correct use of input, time to climb and consider the position. According to the project manager, who is also a researcher from the Uyole Agricultural Research Institute (Uyole), Mmari William, the needs of that type of beans in South Africa, comes from its main reputation of not making acids. It is stated that the type of beans were taken to South Africa and Tanzania, who were working in mines in the country, to attract more citizens from there due to the reputation of the acids (acid) together with his good flavor. However, it was not easy for those farmers to accept to get into the farming of a contract with the aim of producing in large numbers of beans due to their experiences about agricultural production projects. The farmers still have memories of the crops like pivica, which they have been encouraged to grow in large numbers where there is a reliable market but it was not so. "The farmers agreed later, after the buyer gave 18 tons of seeds for the beans," says Mmari. The harvest of the beans in the month of March, this year was motivation to the farmers of that village of French as well as neighboring villages to enter with more strength in the farming of the beans, being after the buyer bought all the farmers who have been smoking a different money and it was before getting into the contract with the buyer. Joseph Mungai is adorned with one of the farmers who benefited through the farming of the beans, who also after completing the construction of his house has given the name of the beans, Mwasipenjele. The victim says he started the beans in December last year after he was convinced by the experts of that soil health project, and after hesitation tried to tried. "This year I have seen that the beans are business, they said that they have its market and actually I got the market," says the farmer then adds; "you are behind the market was Mlowo, and you will meet with it there is that, I have got a lot of that day then it is 5,000 shillings for a plastic bucket of 20 kilograms." The farmer notes that the price that they agreed with the buyer from South Africa is 800 shillings for kilograms, thus in the capacity of a plastic bucket from the market in that district, it means he is leaving 16,000 shillings again without the cost of transportation instead of 5,000 shillings while being forced to travel more than twenty kilometers to follow the market. "This time, I have attracted me, the guys who follow him here," he is adorned with the analysis of the use of the money he had received due to the sale of beans saying, "I have finished my house that you see here, I have bought for a child and the rest of 101,300 shillings we used for local use." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_61198237 A Tanzanian near the posters and today we are here in the country and I have never been saying that there is a fishing system to destroy the environment and there is an importance of taking action to keep us talk about the citizens believe about it. No one who stay in the hashing small fish are killed in a fish in a way to generate more knowledge on how others can be rare. Crime Of the fireworks at the point is now I don't tell you that it is not true because others do a small person who wants those small fish and those small fish is that we lack. After And this period of jail for those who visit social media about going to service, you will be a difference here if you look for you to go back. Circles, you will discover all the Smile. Together early Mary then the point
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_46118388 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 2016 was a year of disgraceful sports in sports, Mister Makongoro, the Citizen, directed @ mwananchi.corez today is 366 days for the year 2016, while in a bid to welcome the new year 2017. The end of that year is to welcome the new year 2017 that every person, people, institutions, organization, companies are planning according to the procedure and what has been planned to achieve goals. While in the year 2016 when you end, we can say it wasn't a success in sports, and the only success is to win the Champions Cup championship for women who Kili Queens. Kili Queens beat Kenya 2-1 in the final match that was played in Kampala, Uganda. The year of losses in the year 2016 was a loss, because among the 50 games that will be played in the country is the women's soccer to take the Trophy of Chalchange and Mbwana Samatta to take the award for the best player in Africa for a player who plays soccer in Africa. The award of Samatta Africa has announced Tanzania international after winning that award on January 7 entertaining Baghdad Boundja, the striker of Etoile du Sahel of Algeria and goalkeeper, Robert Kadiaba of TP Mazembe of Congo which was playing for the year at the time before he joined Genk in Belgium. "There is no dispute, in 2016, Samatta is the only player in Tanzania soccer, he is the only player who managed to play the Europa League, this is an example to be followed in our soccer and our 2016 hero," explains soccer analyst Ally Mayay. The championship of Kili Queens Chalchange, despite several challenges, the Tanzania Mainland Women's soccer squad (Kilimanjaro Queens) fought and put a record of being the only team that won the Champions League this year. The former coach of that team, Rogasian Kaijage said that team despite protecting the country in the year 2016, but it has lost support and pressure because it has been understood as a 'street child'. "Laiti Kilimanjaro Queens or Twiga Stars being given support, every day I say this is the team that can take Tanzania to the World Cup, check in 2016 if it is not itself, Tanzania wouldn't support the year without a cup," he says. Serengeti Boys, Alphonce Felix, tried in 2016, Serengeti Boys tried to 'give me' success in 2016 after breathing in the quest for tickets to qualify for the African finals for youths under 17 years despite being released in the final match with Congo. Serengeti was stuck in a humiliating step in sports at the end after being defeated by Congo Brazzaville 1-0 away, thus making the results that 3-3 with Congo Brazzaville to qualify for a away goal after Serengeti scored 3-2 goals in Dar es Salaam city. This year also, the artist, Alphonce Felix tried to return Tanzania on the Olympic map despite taking a medal that ended the fifth position in the Marathon race. President of the Tanzania Athletics Federation (RT), Anthony Mtaka, spoke about that position as the beginning of success in that game and insisted that it has never happened in a period of several years. The secretary general of the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Filbert Bayi explained that the results are the catalyst for long-term preparations and insisted that parties and the government invested in preparation, Tanzania will perform well in the coming games. Alphonce entered the list of the top five marathon of the Olympics of Rio 2016 in Brazil, running for 2: 11: 15 left for 2: 71 minutes and the champion of those races, Eliud Kipchoge from Kenya. The year of shame, Taifa Stars, Ngorongoro Heroes and Yanga Taifa Stars was eliminated early in the process of searching for tickets to qualify for the finals of Africa when the heroes who were the one to expect Tanzania in soccer in the Olympic Games unable to do justice for that opportunity for not participating. The secretary general of the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Filbert Bayi said they did not understand what TFF did not pay for Ngorongoro Heroes in the process of finding the Olympic standards. "We told TFF about the participation of Ngorongoro, those reports they know but themselves did not concern them, you can't impose them," said Bayi. The others tried 2016 are Yanga and Azam. Yanga was given to the African Champions League and entered the Federation Cup where the water was very long as Azam was released early in the Federation Cup. The other games was in ICU 2016 in a year which was difficult for games like boxing, swimming, tennis, Won, hands, basketball, Magongo, kabee, golf, a high table, netball, lifting the items and other 30 other games that will be played in the country 2016. The National Boxing Team has finished in the year with the slogan of 'wal here' without participating in any international competition accompanied by the national netball team. Other games such as Iron, hands, lifting up the blinders, Magongo, a bicycle, and a bicycle was to take place in a near stop as it ended up in the international field. The former chairperson of BMT, Colonel Iddi Kipnis has admitted 2016 to be a bad year in the family of athletes. "There was no emphasis on the awareness of leaders in search of success, this has contributed to international attention, but I would assure you of Tanzania, I start a journey to look for the success of sports by organizing youths, who wants to join me and the doors are open," he said. MO, Manji to buy Simba and Yanga this year also ends by leaving the memory of business people, Mohamed Dewji (MO) and Yusuf Manji wanting to buy Simba and Yanga clubs. However, they met with various challenges, it explained that their decision did not follow the constitution before the National Sports Council (BMT) to prevent and want every step to start afresh and be participatory. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_93575739 Yes, you know that at the time of Islamic research, Tanzania has strongly criticized the police force on claims that it is the one that contributes to the continued because of different types in the country due to not taking appropriate measures to the secretary general of the community, Sheikh Ponda Issa Ponda has given an example that those with the religious aim that happened in Mbagala in the city had been given a few days ago to those authorities I was called to blame in that case of censored the source. Dennis masalanga and more information That's why we say even let's look at a look at all. We where our leaders They are telling these things in a way that gives a huge contribution in bringing in the okay dress. There is no doubt that there are claims that we've been given up again by the artist to give their condolences Watch the hour and leadership by going to the church Without seeing it, you must have. They were good then they found themselves shared by the police and the police. Conferences here So as to get life, but second. Which reveals the cause of people are going to go. This Sheikh Ponda Issa Ponda at a meeting with journalists in tomorrow to sell me to forget about the moral crime incident that comes to Mbagala in Dar es Salaam, after the debate of children causing himself to read a religious book of a religion to condemn and cause confusion that caused the coalition, the issue of police using a big force is to bring more attention to the community and those institutions, while President Kikwete is accused of what was described by Sheikh Ponda to be unable to supervise the conflict of religious conflicts. The leader steal a lot. Fraud that does not mean to pay but if you see their performance Above we say they won't accept that the citizens cannot accept that medicine Real family members or anatrace The network has compared to the humiliation of various religions that can be handled by religious leaders and the government to sit together and discuss those issues that are not normal for the Tanzanian community, however, some of the humanitarian groups are going against them and retaliation for such events that translates to the country on a religious basis and the three-air pollution.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84971086 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Simba looked like Mbuyu Twite "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Rahel Pallangyo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 13 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The president of Simba, Evans Aveva has denied the report of wanting to sign defender Mbuyu Twite, who was left to Yanga. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mbuyu Twite was left with Yanga at this time of the window of registration and rumors spreading to the rivals of that club, Simba are in the process of signing that player that he will play in different positions on the field. However, speaking to this newspaper, the president of Simba Club, Evans Aveva denied the news and said that the defender from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has no place in the team's squad. "Twite, he has no place in the current squad of Simba because we have many players who are younger and talented in their position," said Aveva. He said he is heard of rumors that Mbuyu Twite was left by Yanga and that Simba needs and said that rumors has no truth. He said that the report of their coach Joseph Omog shows that the club needs a goalkeeper and they have already registered the goalkeeper Daniel Agyei from Maduro. Apart from signing that goalkeeper, Simba has also signed an attacking mid-fielder James Kei but he added that they also need one striker who will help each other with Laudit Mavugo and Ibrahim Ajib. Twite was said by Yanga after the club signing the mid-fielder Justin Bieber from Zesco of Zambia and completed the number of seven foreign players. Four years ago Twite signed a previous contract with Simba, but later turned to the club and registering Yanga that he helped to win various titles of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, Kagame Cup and to enable them to get into the group stage of the Confederation Cup of African Football (CAF). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_33604352 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government uses billions to treat non-non-communicable diseases Herieth Makwetta, Mwananchi hspoon @ scientanchi.corez infections and the effects of non-communicable diseases continue to increase in the country while it cost the families and the nation a lot of money to deal with it. Heart diseases and kidney infections are among those diseases which are a threat to many citizens while his treatment which often happens outside the country cost the government more than 36.6 billion between the year 2013 and 2016 as it has revealed statistics of the ministry of health, community development, gender, elderly and children. Reports of that ministry explain that within that period a total of 590 patients that were transported by the government to get treated outside, 430 people had heart and 160 diseases they needed for kidney transplantation. The spokesperson of the Ministry of Health, Nsachlan Mwamaja says the heart diseases can affect more adults than children and advise them to consider exercise so as to reduce the possibility of getting those infections. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3159 club league entertainment
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_56751109 It is for Msama promotion that coordinates the Easter festival on April this year has started handing over donations to people with disabilities because of doing it is available at the festival. The director of that company, Alex Msama today has handed over a bicycle of three legs to Mohamed Kombo who is physically challenged to ease his transport because before that he was not forecast. This is one of the pride that no one is giving out in stones to do. The Easter festivals have said the network of events forever For those who are in the province after seeing him in the condition of Mister you say now let me say just to implement my promises and that is when I give him a bicycle to help him in the highway. Visit her daily activities here. And when I got the thanks for the district maybe I amen this is my leg To visit And I won't be able to take action To say that let me take this bash to sell us Now I will be beauty now when I take the responsibility to sell he has not heard is the same way I have the legs. The Easter festival will bring together gospel singers from inside and outside the country with the aim of collecting money for the purpose of helping the disadvantaged people. And then this year they were targeted are the disabled of the southern provinces from Dar es Salaam, Bakari Chanel ten
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_76178606 Most of the areas you want to do this game continue on you so many areas to be a contribution to the teachers themselves as these people who got the opportunity to serve the card he was taught is the first thing. But it is the government's position as it is one of them. Make sure that the infrastructure Playing for the game? In a special school because sports are not playing for all the teams that are playing in special schools, those others have already given their games to play for that first one is for something that starting from a special school, the village government that it will put the area and unfortunately, the area of playing this game is less than twenty meters long by setting up an amount of first one. But let me say that balls that are being played. Too expensive So the preparations should be that A deliberate decision to take place so as to make sure that the good equipment to play is available here in the country and sometimes we ask the government to benefit because they are being played for disabled people. The tax procedure then you could be able to reduce because something that makes us very much in the country and the tax of sports equipment that are now added to now iron sheets and pain and also you will find talents going on. On the top of the ball almost one hundred thousand shillings it starts to put up iron sheets which you can sell for two hundred thousand shillings and a book sometimes. Availability of money in our activities is not great to that. But you know it again It's continuing to disclose her in the tournament You ask the government that when you go to this tournament and be there? Then we do a process to communicate with other countries or other organizations or other global communities. Let's see now that the youth can choose and I don't know where we go to play first to play in East Africa but also we need the scope of going to the Olympics, we will be doing justice for the game to do justice for people with disabilities But at the end of which it is best to request the government will continue to provide training to teachers feel the problem with their children at different levels in order to raise awareness and with two children now they will get to wear and play but playing for knowing that now they are going to the international competition. However, what is Kiganja That's standing by the chief sports officer from the office of the prime minister, TAMISEMI, when he completed the decision and a lot of asking him to ask him because of that game, most of the game has been so shocked that you would like to know that the game that you have to look for a lot from experts who contribute to this topic which have been taught in the middle of the week it will be ready to talk to the topic again. My challenge The Mayor He requested the citizens of accidents in blind children and that their needs are important and sports is one of the treatments. Sports is one of the treatments for children Those with disabilities As delegates elected. The industry is very important to our talents. Costs but we request that they are available Available for children to participate People can be able to participate in the competition so give. Broad stakeholders involved in youth and children with the meaning that other sports officers come from together with the education officers Of accidents, the disabled children are blind and looking for the needs of because there are many needs of the bobo player if there are spectacles, there are glasses that are supposed to be decided by the money so in the meantime, the schools will not be able to get things like that therefore we depend on that the big stakeholders in these children are a great job of education to thank you in a style.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_77211257 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A prayer for a wife for a bid to go to them were missing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The practice of a woman is running back to her parents every time she grew up. The guy told his wife that because it seemed to be so much, she gave permission to live there. He wrote to her in-laws, he told me that because they told their daughter running back to them every different times, then he allowed him to continue to live at them. It is said that when he got that message his wife was crying, but the guy had done his decision. "She tried to return to her husband but he told him he had started another twist of her life," he said. Her parents have also been shocked by the decision by Collins SLO guys. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53088495 Mym and say just let me tell me the right to tell me the right I am with fever that makes it really bad. Tell me the story of winning, well as you went to hospital in line in hospital, he still went to hospital, I am going to hospital with an elderly man. I still have to come to Madina medicine. Ehr but evening I went here in court Tell me to tell me what I call fever Ehit mothers is bad My neighbors I'll go here in fact I see if that is a minute it is a pair here, he is in the air here, but I am going to go I'll be alone when we went close to close down when I went to the evening to ask him. Mi want to go to the hospital that's a crush. AHH tell me that now we are a patient to tell me what I want to tell me.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_59732661 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. P Square to kill Diamond Platinumz today!!! This is the exercise of SEMA "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The P Square musician, Peter Okoye has been shown to be surprised by the report that Bongo Flavor musician Naseeb Abdul attended his wedding recently in Nigeria and attended by various stars from the Totenham Hotspurs club. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Previously through various blogs, there were reports that the dimond was the only South African musician who was invited to the ceremony that was attended by number one Africans, where Dangote said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The blogs had gone far by opposing Diamond for weird positions including Michael Jackson of East Africa, something that caused many to see him. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Being interviewed by EATV's station just after arriving in Dar es Salaam city for a show that was played at the leaders of the leaders club, Okoye was surprised by the reports of the government to attend his wedding. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Okoye who was responding to a question that was mentioned by the presenter of Hotmix Adrian Hilary about Diamond to attend the wedding where he was surprised by the name and questioned Diamond. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He was surprised at the split despite Diamond making a match in front of Okoye on the wedding day, but the musician was not knowing the former lover of the village. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41893438 The residents of the neighborhood of the neighborhood of the mine, that is in the ground in Simanjiro District, therefore invading the area of mine to see and use the way to the main entrance of the board. And making the destruction of water infrastructure for what is described as a protest, would not talk about the support of the workers Witnesses have said that we did not involve one hundred people that are estimated to have recipitation they think of the Masaai farmers. The funeral of the beloved police forces put the same as residents Full report by Ramadhani mspots This center was taken to Mirerani area shortly after the occurrence of the incident where the defender of blood in that mine, Habiba Ahmed has said the group before destroying the infrastructure, we started to plan stones at the main entrance of the mine we saw. More They took stones to the machetes and where they set up they said here he will be able to enter or leave. Beka It is understood The security manager and the relationship of the tango company looks at the field and that He has said that the incident is a natural production of that conflict due to lack of water for several hours until he was forced to look for alternative methods to restore the infrastructure. The activity was delayed because he was in charge of our technicians to depend on them by making extra work to make but also they will also give you going to work. While little was impossible after that everyone was afraid and there is a lot of fear and there is no fear and there is no one in cooking after the incident has been looking for and managed to get the chairman of the village of naisinyai, it is not, Laizer, who claimed that the villagers reached the step after noting the lack of justice to the workers of that community in an exercise of sale at work. They have said God has not done mistakes in keeping the area. Now the Tanzanian company is more than twenty years led by whites Now up to this time it is led by people who call the indigenous communities until now. They aren't two years but when they went to all the services that provide a village. By all the companies, there is no one that is there again on the sixth of November last year, the leadership of the Tanzanite mine took the decision to reduce work for approximately six hundred and thirty thousand out of one hundred and thirty thousand and one of the two hundred and thirty thousand shillings as a result of the production of minerals, a situation that has generated controversy. Ramadhani Mvungi Star t _ v Mererani Simanjiro District I think again.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_15341748 To the route to Dar to be punished - DC "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Katuma Masamba "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 13 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA) and the road safety squad in the special region of Dar es Salaam have been urged not to hurt the drivers who go to the route and thus causing disruption to passengers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In addition, the passengers have also been urged to be harsh and giving information when they see drivers and Makonda when they do those acts, because it is against the law and procedures. That statement has been made by the head of Temeke District, Felix Lyaniva, while speaking to this newspaper at the peak of the go safely week road in the special region of Dar es Salaam that took place at the Mwembe Yanga grounds. Lyaniva, he said some of the drivers and Volunteers have had a habit of cutting the route and contempt of the end of the vehicle if their licenses were given by Summer. "This is a big problem, the passengers have been getting a lot of trouble. For example, this problem is so much in this road in Kilwa road, you find a car that is written in Temeke-Tuangoma but it ends in Mbagala, this is unacceptable, "said Lyaniva. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_43417221 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The agricultural institution of Agro For Help Foundation has been launched officially in the Ministry of Agro For Help Foundation of Dar es Salaam, which is involved in lifting up with the agricultural sector in the country today 31 January 2017, has been launched officially in front of the stakeholders of agriculture and government officials at an event that took place in Dar es Salaam today. Previously during that launch, the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Honorable. Paul Makonda who was represented by the head of Kigamboni District, Honorable. Hashim Mgandilwa has congratulated Agro For Help Foundation, for coming up with their plan because it is among the sectors that raise the economy of Tanzania while urging them to focus on providing agricultural education and also the issue of information to farmers on agriculture and markets. The guest of honor, the Provincial Commissioner of Kigamboni, urged different stakeholders to come out to support the efforts that were introduced to that institution because they have benefits to the farmers and the stakeholders of that sector, Mama in the growth of the country's economy. On his side, the Chief Executive of the Agro For Help Foundation, Miss. The year Shukuru has thanked the government for continuing to support the agricultural sector in the country including private stakeholders who are involved in those issues thus they believe they will cooperate with all stakeholders including the government in developing agriculture and farmers in general. "Through this institution, it will help to spread the education of agribusiness and modern farming. We have shown a lot of challenges including climate change because it has been a challenge, therefore our presence will see that and the big one is to see how to take appropriate measures including providing education and to encourage them in different ways including the modern farming of the world. " He has explained Miss. The year Shukuru. Miss. In the year Shukuru has added that until now to reach the official launch that has been available more than one year in the country where it is organized itself to be the same in helping small farmers to go to the middle farming and to do agriculture is business and agriculture is employment because they believe this will lead to the growth of the economy through the agricultural sector and to reduce poverty while providing employment to many Tanzanians. On his part, one of the stakeholders of agriculture in the country who is engaged in the fruits of fruits including the Mapapai, lady Angella Kavati has commended the institution because he believes it will be more help to farmers who have always been focused on agriculture only in practice or what they do. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_42995408 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Lema failed again to get bail "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Veronica Mheta, Arusha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 29 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The thirst of the member of parliament of Arusha town, Gobless Lema getting bail and to come out of the law after languishing in prison for four weeks now, continues to be praised after the lawyers of the government submitted the appeal of that parliamentarian to be heard at the high court in Arusha region. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Lema was unable to put in the court room for the purpose of listening to his case, instead for all the time since 2: 14 am until 6: 18 pm he was only in prison waiting to be taken to court and then after some time, he went to the prison window to go to a kiss of Kisongo where he has been there for more than 26 days now due to being stuck on bail. That appeal has been opposed by government lawyers who are Paulo Kadushi and Matereus Marandu claiming that the appeal that was taken by the lawyers of Lema has not met the legal requirements because those lawyers bought appeal instead of showing the intention of appeal. Materu said they have presented their objection in front of Judge Fatma Masengi to oppose the Supreme Court not listening to a bail case because the lawyers defended Lema, who is Peter Kibatala and Sheck Mfinanga, have left the appeal instead of presenting a notice of the intention to appeal within 10 days after previously the judge gave a request to be heard of that appeal. "We today have put a petition to be heard in this case because these colleagues have already left them instead of presenting a petition to appeal, they rushed to appeal and the law does not say that it should be the first to make the intention of cutting the appeal and then appeal," explained Materu. Therefore the petition to appeal will be presented in the text tomorrow November 30th, this year at 2: 00 am, the government's side will submit to their arguments and six hours on the same day, and the side of the lawyers of Lema will answer the concerns of those lawyers in the text and Judge, Masengi will go through those concerns at nine o'clock in the afternoon. Then Judge Masengi will give the decision against the petition on December 2nd this year and if he will agree with the government's side, Lema will fail and if Lema's argument won against the government's objection, the basic case to be heard by the request of the member of parliament will be heard and given a decision. The lawyers of the member of parliament led by Kibatala, said they had previously requested an appeal number 112 / 113 of the year 2016, the high court in Arusha region so as to claim the justice of Lema being denied due to legal mistakes that were done by the resident magistrate of Arusha. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_86596095 But I hear the sister And mothers is not that eties and time For Africa, we are on the surprises of WhatsApp for free, unk, gt; and our games in the peace of the money to take him to the presidency because the fools of the newspapers were saying. There is a must for us to make us more healthy for us to say the games that brings you and you my Baby I have not checked all the secrets we were in Africa to make him know and be sure of a hundred and do you know. You know something in their house when they are playing, they are not paid the allowance, it will be successful to know that it's playing even when you don't get in their studies, and let them go with them and those children have been given a Mlimani city same as our colleagues that makes it because of our colleagues, we are our colleagues what we do, then I will request to go not clean water and branches. I think we should have. And the investigation Pot Ok you have time to look and there is time But ink to look at even the games let us change the change This abusive will give us our left. Looking at Where we have come from watching and Fly back then check it is to look at their solutions and look at the interests of checking the interests of the nation, they demolished well and go. They will also be the same medicine, the father and the youth of the country they'll be given to the team to change instead of hours they are only sports and those mothers. What you will add is watching the time and time you are changing one that is where it is eating How will it be on the evening on the internet still a boy gets palm Even New bedrooms, perhaps the topic giver who are so few To change they don't trust more that on July this year, it comes as a result of if it is a Sure that we are also together without following up, I have also congratulated all African teams even if he has not reached half of the second phase but also I congratulate all the African teams that have been successful to go there because it's just an act of going there we others have a dream of one day I want to see the national team from Tanzania and go to the phone of our colleagues that are gone to the church.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_59383410 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 22 arrested in theft on matic "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Hellen Mlacky "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 14 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A special squad of dealing with theft of using weapons and theft of using the police force in the special region of Dar es Salaam, has arrested 22 suspects in the mistake of stealing vehicles with vehicles and passersby in the traffic lights. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the police commander of that region Simon Sirro said that those suspects have been designed to form groups and leaves people with vehicles and pedestrians with their properties as mobile phones, computers, hours and money. He said the monitoring was held and arrested those suspects at different times, whereby on December 11 this year in Temeke, Keko, Magurumbasi and Veta and Chang'ombe, where they were arrested 10 suspects in theft of theft from bodily shape and theft from vehicles. He named some of the suspects as Ayubu Commander (19), a resident of Mtoni Mtongani, Shabani Fadhili (18), a resident of Keko, Herman Francis (26), a resident of Keko Maguumbasi and seven colleagues. "In an interview the suspects have confessed to be involved in various mistakes including the robberies of using weapons and using force," he said. Moreover, he said that the initial investigation has revealed the suspect Herman Francis is facing charges of murder, whereby on March 20 this year, he held a knife and escape to the unknown. At the same time, December 12th this year the police arrested 12 other suspects in theft of theft from vehicles. Those suspects have been mentioned as Sande Kassim (18), a resident of Keko, Emmanuel Abeli (21), Paulo Abeli (18), Jafari Nyerere (22), Hamis Salum (22), Hemed Idrisa (22) all the residents of Keko and six colleagues. In another incident, the police have arrested four suspects who are involved in theft by throwing people on their cars and later uses the power to steal. Those suspects have been mentioned as Juma Kajeni (35), a resident of Tabata, Hamadi Kaganda (38), a resident of Mbagala, Mashaka Ally (62), a resident of Yombo and Mshamu Ally (32), a resident of Mtongani. He said all the suspects are being questioned and when the investigation will be completed, they will be taken to court to answer the charges that they are facing. He also warned the citizens and the owners of the vehicles to be keen on those people who come with the intention of paying a lot of money or hire a car at a large extent and then they are studying with a car. At the same time, the police in the special unit of Dar es Salaam through his work squad of dealing with theft of vehicles has seized three vehicles of theft in various provinces. Sirro made a car with number T 386 CGY type of Verosa color, the property of Abraham Robert of Dar es Salaam city and the vehicle was arrested in Mbeya province that has been abandoned. Another vehicle is with number T 946 DGH type of IST, the money being run by the suspect Hamadi Saidi (27) a resident of Kimara Dar es Salaam which was arrested in Morogoro province, the vehicle was stolen from Kawe Beach in Dar es Salaam city. He mentioned another vehicle to be Mitsubishi as a number T 753 CVZ which is a fake number while his real number being T.815 DJF assets of Magreth was stolen from Kimara Suka area in Dar es Salaam city. He said one suspect who was arrested is being questioned and when the investigation will be completed, he will be taken to court. He also said the efforts to search for other suspects who were involved in the theft of those vehicles are continuing a search so as to identify the whole network of theft of vehicles and other suspects who are wanted for the theft of the vehicles in the past who fled. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_47765939 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government, a factory employing 1,000 youths in Morogoro. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by John Nditi, Morogoro "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 28 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The efforts of the fifth term government of increasing employment to the youth have started bearing fruits after signing a joint contract with the sports industry of Mazava Fabric & Production East Africa Limited in Morogoro so as to give technical training in modern technology of about 1,000 youths. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That agreement has been signed in the office of the Provincial Commissioner of Morogoro, through the secretary general in the office of the prime minister (policy, parliament, labor, youth, employment and disability), Eric Shitindi on behalf of the government and the planning manager of that factory, Nelson Mchukya signed on behalf of Mazava. Shitindi said under that procedure, already 360 youths have completed the type of training at the Tanzania Tooku Garment factory located in Dar es Salaam city and the aim of the government is to give 27,000 youths training for the purpose of enabling them to get employment in various parts of the country. In that event they were witness with the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Doctor Adelhelm Meru and the Director of the special region of the special region of Investment in the country (EPZA), Joseph Simbakalia and the administrative secretary of Morogoro Province, Doctor John Ndunguru. "The event of the signing of that agreement is important in our country where the government's intention to see the nation is taking a big step in the economy of industries and so as to achieve that goal they do not have employees with the skills of serving the industrial sector... the business attraction is not the only tax is to even have employees with skills that are prepared to work in different industries," he said. He added that the opportunity has been given by the government to youths from different parts of the country and that in order to get advertisements are given in the newspapers and other organs and there will be no boundaries for the reputation of education. He said the office of the Prime Minister is the one that will cater for the training, while the Mazava Factory will give his area with experts to teach those selected to join the training in various phases. Doctor Meru said that it is a major reforms in the issue of investment in the country, where the government has decided to teach his youths so that they are ready to be employed by industries that will be built and also self-employed themselves. He said the office of the Prime Minister in collaboration with his ministry has started a special program to teach the youth skills by writing and sewing clothes at the cost of the government. Doctor Meru said that 1,000 youths will get training on building for a period of three months every phase, an issue that will enable investors in the industry of clothes to employ youths with skills. The planning manager of the production factory of Mazava Fabric & Production East Africa Ltd, Nelson Mchukya, said that after signing that contract they are ready to receive 100 youths from November 15th this year. That manager said the government will fund those youths allowance, fare, food, while the factory will have the responsibility of providing technical training on sewing clothes using modern machines through the trainers. The Mazava Fabric & Production East Africa LTD is owned by Winds Enterprises (Hangzou) Ltd, where it is involved with the manufacturing of sports clothes and its main market is foreign countries, especially America. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_11534203 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The husband AMCHINJA his wife, is believed to be the case of a man, himself, has been fired from the hospital. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rashid Mkwinda "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A woman resident of Mahango village, Mbarali District, Mbeya Region who was known by the name Just Mamga (20) was murdered by being stabbed with her husband known as Gervas Kadaga (25) who is also a resident of that village. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The incident happened the day before yesterday, November 21 at 4: 00 pm after the conflict between those lovers, where the deceased was found with nine wounds of knife in various parts of his body. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The police commander of Mbeya Region Mister. Councilor Athumani said that the deceased was in his home where the suspect who was admitted at the Mbeya Referral Hospital has been wounded by being stabbed with a knife. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, Commander Athumani said that until now it is not known as the real source of that conflict where the police force is continuing to investigate the incident while the suspect was placed under police custody at the referral hospital of Mbeya where he is hospitalized. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The event of that kind is the second in a period not exceeding two weeks whereby on November 12, the wife and son who were identified by the names of Husulina Kornel (42) and his son Kondo Alphonce Chikondo (19) the residents of Iseche village in Mwambani Division, Kwimba district, were partnering to kill her husband known by the name Sylvester Chikondo (55). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the report of Commander Athumani is that the woman Husulina Kornel who was claimed to partner with his child killing her husband was arrested on November 20 in Mwambani Chunya. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Commander Athumani said that in an interview with the police force and the woman claimed that he did the killings alone without involving her child who is being used by the police force. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, he said that a large percentage of the incidents of murder of that kind are as a result of marriage conflicts and the love of love and that it is good for the couple to solve their internal conflicts in a way of talks so as to avoid possible effects. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While speaking at the referral hospital where the big mother of Gervas that introduced himself by the name Martha Lugenge said that these youths met so far but everyone in his activities when they decided to live together. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that he was given reports of the incident the next day and that when he arrived, he found the relatives of the deceased have taken the body of their child because of the funeral procedures and that he doesn't know the cause of a conflict that caused the knives. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The mother said that those youths have never been able to get a child and that they have not started to live together for a long time; "All are children, because they have started living a long time? They have met everyone in his work, then when they started to live as a wife and husband," he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_30677683 Arusha, the agency of forest services in the southern region which include Ruvuma province threats and citizens have launched an exercise of processing of bees in the village of ichesa, Namtumbo district with the implementation of the campaign to increase the income by bee bees in the village of Alekena Mtumba during the launch is part of the whole country's plan by posting ten thousand tanks by June this year, our authors have praised the report from there. Connecting aims to raise the position and give you a little longer The mosques who represent the capital Before tanks in we expected Villagers to be surprised by the agent of Forest Service They used the bees to make an income in his greetings, popularly known as Chege is saying that every Tanzanian is supposed to manage the implementation of the prime minister Mizengo Pinda, urged everyone. By using bees to add income to each of your information here, the picture of owning a unity of the union is not starting with different instruments you must see every member of the family member. He does not have the bees for the reason to come up, those who know where you are possible earlier, giving a report on the implementation of the tanks who are the agents of forests, Tanzania has also lost a shame to the events in the Southern region here, Haule says you can't have noted that he has put a tanks in mississippi that I understood to sleep in white and sing if you get away. The person did the news I want to have been caused mercenaries, he will sleep in weaving together with the fourth and fifth ambassador. And the challenge members should reduce the momentum Think more in a big weakness to produce one hundred tanks through our project. Which we have been born all the talents and And we got one hundred tanks and from. Tanzania in one hundred and ten of them is the solution that we have reached but Gerson Msigwa On the right Still work
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_20003941 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Dawn Mali of a billionaire businessman who was arrested in detention by the US government... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Dawn! The attorney general (AG), George Masaju has presented a document to the Supreme Court of Tanzania in Dar es Salaam region wanting the detention and ban on all assets of the accused of drugs "flour, Muharami Abdallah or famous by the name" Chloe "and his wife, Mwalibora Nyanguri to transfer ownership, dropping or pray for loans. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The application against Chloe and his wife were presented with emergency documents in court on September 13th this year in front of Judge Wilfred Dyansobela. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Apart from CHQ and his wife "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. AG has requested that court to stop Chloe, his agents or anyone else on his behalf, to transfer the ownership of property, dropping the house or pray for loans (so that the government should look at the legality of the availability of those assets). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_19449692 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The world is growing at the door of the disappearance of electricity frequently in poor neighborhoods in the city and rural areas is not an amazing thing. The residents of these places are forced to stay in the dark for a long time before seeing the light. Ms Susan Wendy Shias is one of the residents of kinyago village that is in Eduardo in Nairobi, who have been affected by the situation of electricity. In the last year, Ms Shias had been employed in the area and every time the power of electricity got lost in the whole day, returning home without bread despite having a depend on them. "If they are employed in a salon, you are paid according to your work, if you work to return home without a few cents," he explains. "Life was so hard that paying the house tax was a problem," adds Ms Shias who is now the chairman of the 15 women group, known as Twinklers. 50,000 shillings, this group is owning a hotel which they started due to the award of 50,000 shillings they got after emerging winners in the competition to Put packets of a washing machine of Ariel. Apart from employing five youths, members of this group who did not have jobs have also got employment in that hotel. "Most of us who did not have the work now we have employed in our group's hotel and even start our personal business," he says. This group was started last year, the producers of Ariel soap when they visited the area and urged women who were close to form groups for the purpose of the collection of packets of that soap. "Fortunately, the electricity had been lost and I was only one of my colleagues in the street because I went to work," he says. He continued, "we were told to split up in groups so as to start the competition of collecting packets of Ariel. We considered a humor but we were threatened that the competition was true and the winners would receive 50,000 shillings. " After gathering the papers for nearly a month, this group was shocked by the good news that they were able to collect a lot of packets more than other groups in the region of Cameroon, the Nairobi county. Ms Shiite says that members decided to start a project that would improve their future lives instead of sharing those funds and then a group collapse. "We started a hotel business because it would be a wealthy majority of us that we are doing the problems that are not productive," he explains. Every day after the sales of members of this group are sitting down and made accounts so as to note the benefits they got. Three quarters of the benefits that are available are members who are required to return those funds together with interest of 10 percent every month. "The quarter that we are in the bank," says Miss Julia Muthoni, the secretary of the Twinklers group. Ms Muthoni explains that unlike in the past where he was working with washing clothes so as to survive, now his life has changed significantly. "You can walk around the street without getting a person to wear clothes. At the same time, water is lost in this village, the work they should just wait, "says Miss Muthoni, who is a mother of two children. According to Irene Mwathi who is a good relations officer of the Procter & Gamble (P & G) that is making a soap to Ariel, more than 140 groups across the country has benefited from the competition of collecting packets that are thrown after the soap ses. "Groups that have managed to get those funds are involved in various activities like, rearing of chicken, coal, manufacturing, bricks, milk business among others," explains Miss Mwathi, adding that the competition is still underway. Twinklers are among the groups according to the Minister of Planning and Ugatuzi Miss Anne Waiguru, already a total of 5 billion shillings have been admitted in all the 290 people across the country. A total of 4 billion shillings were divided, whereby every region received an amount of 13,847,586, while the funds that are remaining were divided depending on the level of poverty according to the report of the statistics organization in the country (NBS). The Mandera ward is the one that has received a huge amount of the money of BI Shiite Sh3.8 million while Lamu East receiving a total of more than 14.2 million shillings. The groups of women, youth and walkers that have already submitted the request to benefit from the Treasury funds for the ability. "When we succeed to get those funds for the ability, we aim to open a big hotel in the middle of Nairobi," says chairman Shihem., which have attained the criteria required to take a loan of between 50,000 and 500,000 shillings without paying interest. The group should have nine People and less than 15 People aged between 18 and 35. Likewise, that group must be a bank account with the name of the group. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17719512 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. CHADEMA beats CCM in Igunga Aug 22, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Revolutionary Party (CCM) has lost a parliamentary seat again, after the member of parliament of Igunga, Tabora province, Doctor. Auctioneer Kafumu being stripped of that position by the high court of Tabora Region. The Doctor. The agent has been stripped of the parliamentary seat after the trial filed against his victory yesterday Tuesday by the judge who was listening to the case, Mary Nsimbo Shearlier. The case against the Doctor. Kafumu was opened by the former parliamentary candidate on CHADEMA ticket, teachers, Joseph Kashindye, in the case to oppose Kafumu's parliamentary seat, joined the Attorney General and the former general election supervisor, Protace Magayane. However, despite that case depressing the Doctor. Kafumu, at the time of the process of listening to the case Kafumu showed concern against Judge Shearlier, who also ignored the concern against him. In the results of the small election which was held after the former member of parliament of Igunga, Rostam Aziz, resignation, Kafumu was announced as the winner of that seat by getting approximately 26,484 votes which is equivalent to 50 percent of all votes. The close opponent of the Doctor. Kafumu was teachers in Kashindye who had 23,260 votes which are 44 percent of all the votes. Voting in the small election that had a political tension was held on October 2nd, last year. Due to that decision of the court, Doctor. The agent has been quoted saying that he is waiting for his party's decision if they will appeal to oppose those results or not. He explained that for a period that is not a member of parliament will return to his work of expertise in minerals. He has been excluded from the Doctor's parliamentary seat. Kafumu is a second blow to the Revolutionary Party. The first blow was to improve the parliamentary seat of Sumbawanga Town member of parliament, Aeshi Hilaly. The case to oppose the parliamentary candidate of Aeshi was opened by his close opponent, teachers Norbert Yamamoto (CHADEMA) and the verdict of the case that had 68 pages read by the Supreme Court judge in Mbeya region, Betwell Mmila. That judgment of Sumbawanga town was preceded by another judgment against the parliamentary results of the former member of parliament of Arusha Town, Godbless Lema. In the parliamentary judgment of Arusha town, Lema has already decided to appeal against that judgment, an appeal that is still in the process. On the side of Sumbawanga town judgment, CCM has yet to appeal and there is reports that the small elections in that province can be announced a few months from now. It hasn't been made clear about the following CCM decision as an appeal to oppose the results of the Igunga judgment or not. The secretary of ideology and propagation of CCM, Nape Nnauye has talked about that issue saying he is waiting for reading the verdict of that case and then give his party's stand. In another step, at the time of writing this post, CHADEMA leaders were unable to be found to talk about that judgment. Tundu Lissu who is a lawyer of that party, when he was called for a phone called without answers and later fail completely. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_15388847 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The best leagues in the continent for fans and sponsorship by Thomas Matiko for Glo Premier has been mentioned to be one of the most competitive league in Africa according to International Federation of Football history and Statistics, has been unable to attract local players and even outside. Even in Europe, others are interested in the league like England and Spain that have invested well, that are enough money, money that are determined through reliable sponsorship. While in Africa, the sponsorship issue appears to be fast and it has already started OUT of these days has improved business and despite being the premier league of Nigeria which led to the league that are attracting many foreign players to join them so as to give competition to those at home. And this is the reason despite the sweetness of the East African countries that are with many players that are playing soccer in Europe, the lack of good sponsorship has made many good players from outside to boycott the way of playing for the clubs of those nations. With the Zambians in those countries as they decide to escape home so as to search for more rice elsewhere, including also in the South African League, Kenya and Tanzania. 1. South Africa premier league sponsorship: Ksh17.5 billion in the South African Premier League is mentioned to be the most interesting in Africa for the soccer players to be paid due to the huge sponsorship that he got. This is despite being one of the most young league in Africa that was formed in 1996 after the nation self-employed. In 2007, the ABSA bank entered into an agreement to sponsor the PSL premier league sponsorship of 4 billion shillings for a period of five years. Up to today, there is no other league in the African Continent to have ever entered into a big sponsorship of more funding. Along with that deal, PSL entered into another contract of 17.5 billion and SuperSport that was given all the consent of flying his matches directly. After the end of the agreement 2012, ABSA and PSL represented again for another five year period and now will end in 2017. ABSA is informed, there should be a league that has already paid the players. 2. The Ghana Premier League sponsorship: Ksh 903 million in February 2014, the Ghana Football Federation agreed a contract of 10 million American dollars for a period of five years and the first Capital Plus. Every year the bank will be giving a sum of a million shillings that will be divided among the clubs participating in that league. First Capital Plus, which is the country's bank entered into the agreement with Ghana FA after opposing the communications company Vodacom Company that was proposing a sponsorship of 5 million dollars. According to most of Ghana's two games, Allsports and Black Sports Net, several clubs had already threatened to withdraw from the league after the first sponsor of the mobile phone company Globacom, failed to give money in the 2013 / 14 season. In 2008 Globom owned by Nigerian billionaire Mike Adenuga agreed with Ghana FA to give a sponsorship of 23 million American dollars (Ksh2.1 billion) for a period of five years. It is in that sponsorship period where that league was known as Glo Ghana Premier League. However, the sponsorship of this league is estimated to be more than one billion because they are also in another agreement that will be used by SuperSport company which has a permit to fly the premier league championship directly. 3. The Tanzania Mainland Premier League sponsorship: 327 million according to the news of the newspaper of The Citizen of Tanzania on December 19, 2014, the mainland has value Ksh 327 million). The Tanzania Media Group Board (TPLB) announced that the executive committee made a total of 1.5 billion (Ksh90.5 million) to fly the league matches. The Tanzanian League has succeeded more to attract the players of Uganda, Kenya, Brazil, Nigeria and even Liberia. As a result of that sponsorship, every club gets a share of 160 million Tanzanian shillings (Ksh 8 million) each other. The board agreed every year, about five years ago. Recently, it has marred the conflict between the Federation of soccer in the country, FKF and KPL after knowing that the board rejected the sponsorship agreement for the next five years without being informed. In that new deal, SuperSport who are the ones with a license to fly the TPL Board agreed to increase their sponsorship to 100 million shillings. Along with SuperSport, beer company EABL will be making Tusker, it gives a contribution to the sponsorship of the league cup of 56 million shillings each year. In those funds, KPL goes to every club 7 million club that is participating in the premier league and due to the new sponsorship may have reached 10 million shillings. 5. The Egyptian Premier League sponsorship: Ksh100 million the Egyptian Premier League is the oldest in the African continent, founded in 1948. However, the one that is mentioned to be one of the most interesting and competitive leagues in Africa, according to the da la Ventures Africa, got its first year 2005 to agree with mobile phone company Vodacom Tanzania for two years. The amount of money was given by Twitter is unknown. After the completion of the strategy and Vodacom from 2005another mobile company ALAT took over from 07 to 2011, the period that was changing the name from the Voone Egyptian Premier League that ETalat Premier League. da of the end of the contract to sponsor the league that is known as the one of the Egyptian TV station, who have a license to fly its matches directly and also spreading them to other stations. Since 2012, Egyptian TV has been carrying a bundle of 100 million shillings each year for surveillance of those matches especially the famous teams like Al Ahly, Zamalek and Ismaily. In that sense, Vodacom's sponsorship was back again to sponsor it until early this year when it ended up in Potation Sports. The Egyptian Football Federation EFA has been changing its unmistaked explanation that has been dealing with this. However, in addition to all, the udity of that league is more than the amount that was given out by the unknown level that is being given by the sponsors of the league at the moment Potation Sports. Though the league is among those with great attraction to players due to higher payments, the number of foreign workers is very small because every club is allowed to be three only. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_62109353 Investigations the certificate of certificate certificates "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Our Journalists "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 25 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A few days after the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa promised the government to look at the possibility of accusing the Standard ICBC Bank of England concerning corruption that took place in a loan of 600 million American dollars (1.2 trillion shillings) which the government borrowed by using certificate certificates, it has been revealed that the investigation concerning the issue is in the last stages. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That bank is alleged to give a bribe of 6 million American dollars (12 billion shillings) as bribery to government officials so that it can get that business in the country. Prime Minister Majaliwa while speaking to this newspaper recently, he said that the government will work on the opinions of various stakeholders including members of parliament who are advised to be sentenced to that bank due to the scandal. "We as the government we will work and where we have arrived at a step of giving information to the public concerning the implementation of that advice, we will do that," said the Prime Minister. Speaking to this newspaper the day before yesterday, the executive director of the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Commissioner Valentino Mlowola said the institution is continuing with that investigation that is in the last stages in collaboration with different media stations and outside the country. That director said that the investigation will be completed recently, the government will be in a good position to decide about that bank being sentenced or not charged with that issue. "At any time the investigation will end and therefore, the issue will be resolved and the official report will be provided to the citizens so that they know the fate of their money that were taken as valid on this issue," said Mlowola. It is alleged that on March 8, 2013, the Tanzanian government borrowed 600 million American dollars equivalent to 1.2 trillion shillings from outside for the support of the Standard Bank of England which is now called Standard Bank ICIC Plc by setting out certificates of certificates. The loan with interest that will be able to climb started to be paid in March this year and it will be paid until the year 2020 for the 9 passes. By the year 2020, Tanzania will pay that debt together with a total of 897 million American dollars (almost 2 trillion shillings), however, various stakeholders including members of parliament claim that the loan is caused by corruption while the bank was alleged to give a bribe of 6 million American dollars (12 billion shillings) as bribery to government officials so that it can get that business. After the emergence of that scandal, PCCB used the report of the Institute of Investigation of England (SFO) in taking appropriate measures against those who are mentioned in that scandal. However, it is reported that the SFO did not investigate against the British Bank of Standard. Speaking about that issue, the member of parliament for Kigoma Town, Zitto Kabwe (ACT-Wazalendo) said that the interests of Tanzania in that scandal will be big if the government will succeed to show that the Standard Bank was able to get that business in the country. Mentioning those benefits, Zitto said, "one, it will be a big lesson to the international companies that Africa is not a place to count and get work and not being punished. Two, Tanzania will not pay this loan with its interest. We will have saved more than 2 trillion shillings in the National Debt and pointing out the money we were when we got interest to serve our citizens in health and education, "said Zitto. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_62457087 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The coach of West Kenya has said seven players Nyabinge has revealed that he has been given a two year contract with the managers of that team saying that he is also supposed to fulfill the severe conditions if he is expecting to continue being the coach of that team which has its headquarters Kakamega. And Titus, the new coach of the soccer team that is participating in the Supa bridge of "B" West Kenya Sugar Hesborn Nyabinge has announced seven players. Nyabinge, who is making a place for Ezekiel Akhave, has revealed that he will register other new players from different clubs who are in trials to fix the behavior of Kakamega. The players who were filtered by the entrance of Gradius Ochieng and Dan Opondo, Maxwell Onyango and Issa Anyika (mid-fielder), Brian Mandela (mushrooms), Alloyce Masika and Dennis Orenge (defenders). "The test of registering new players continue. I have faith that the initiative will end soon, "Nyabinge told Taifa Leo sports in Kakamega during the exercise and also trials for players. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_12654143 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The rights of reproductive rights in the law of work in Tanzania here in the rights of reproductive rights is the right that enables a woman to fulfill his responsibilities of sell and to fulfill its responsibilities of reproductive health and to work or to produce without being discriminated against or losing employment. The reproductive holiday is one of the rights of reproductive rights, the mother and father a time to provide important care to the child in the first months of his life, including showing them. There is also an employee's holiday with an employee to rest and therefore help his body back to health and normal condition after giving birth. In that logic, it is important for the employer and an employee to understand the rights and responsibilities in the implementation of the law. Give a report. An employee is supposed to bring him his employer the intention of taking a maternity leave at least three months before the date of the speculation of giving birth while adding an illustration of the doctor on pregnancy. The reproductive holiday can be taken four weeks before giving birth or early, if there is a confirmation of the doctor that it is important to do so for the health of the mother or child. The mother has the right to be given a wedding holiday not less than 84 days of payment. Also, who gave birth to a more than one child (twins or more) is supposed to be given a 100 days holiday for payment. If a child is dead. A woman has the right to be given a 84-day reproductive holiday with payments if her child will die in a period of one year since birth. However, the employer is supposed to give an employee an employee of only four days of birth in the whole employment period. When will they go to work. An employee is not allowed to go back to work in the first six weeks since giving birth except when he will be allowed to do so by the doctor. He also comes back to work, a mother has shown the right to be given two hours a day during the work of his child. To work tonight. A pregnant woman and a mother has shown not to work on night from two months before and after giving birth, or any time he shows him for the doctor's certificate, which explains that his condition does not allow him to work overnight. The mother's holiday is an employee. The employment law gives a holiday of not less than three days worth the father of a child who was born. That those days should be taken during the first one week since the birth of a child. Normally the 3-day holiday is usually given immediately in circulation of a year without caring about the number of children who will be born in that period. I mean the holiday comes from once every year even if the father has the children they are getting more than once in the relevant year. The holiday gives the father a chance to serve the mother and child, to help the mother to build a good foundation of making a child and also look for the needs of the family. The father of a child who was born can also be given at least 4 days of payment, at the time of being raped by the child, the death of a child or the death of his partner. The 4-day holiday is usually given immediately in the second holiday of the year, regardless of the number of events that came out in that period. However, the employer can approve an employee to take more days without payments according to the problem he got. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_47686591 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tuesday, September 27, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Jenga positive thoughts, please and joy "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. To be happy with your own decision. The joy is the result of how it decided to think. Likewise, giving up and lack of peace often is the result of thinking things that come up and sometimes we don't have answers. We look at all the things that we meet and that is why we are fighting for a sense of ideas. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yes, your thoughts are very powerful. If you can change the thoughts, you can't suffer from anything that can happen in your life. In this article, we look at several things that can help you to have positive thoughts that will be happy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Keep your knowledge and positive things "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Invest in things that create awareness. Instead of using a lot of time to read, listen, talk, look at the sad news and thinking of heart, it has changed a practice, Tmy time you woke up, make sure your knowledge and information that raised the heart. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Don't wait for other people to ask them. Join yourself by reading positive things, hear it is happening, and reflect on things that lift. As you have created this practice, your knowledge will give you good news and that will be the beginning of being happy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Defeated as a person. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. You may be right in the environment that can't prove you. Maybe he was conned and suggested that you don't have anything. The consequence of your mind is convinced you can't stop thinking about as a poor person who doesn't do something. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There is no reason to continue thinking about it. You don't have any benefit for you. I start to feel like a common man, an important person, a person that is expected by the people. Walk the chest before you can. Tell me the words to lift that you can. Discuss the noise that you used to get to hear that you can't. Ikatae. Just YOU could. Your joy will come back. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Expect good things "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is surprising that often we find out that bad things will happen even in an environment that we do not have any evidence. For example, you can also organize a report to take you to your older players, but you think of how they will oppose the report. Why don't expect that a good thing will happen instead of thinking what you want to receive? Enjoy positive expectations for what you are set up. We expect good things to happen. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Shut down the bad history that you met? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. To think the worst of the wall is terrified and devastating peace. If you've ever failed something, for example, that does not mean you will continue to fail. There is no reason to continue believing poor thoughts that because of the bad reasons, it should go on. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The truth is that any bad thing you've seen in the past cannot be the basis of your identity. It is time to delete the bad history that teaches attention. Italians today rather than yesterday and tomorrow. Enjoy today you will be able to see tomorrow. They will be happy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Let's blame for the mistakes of others "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Why does it seem guilty for another crime? If who is wrong with your brother, your friend or your fellow worker, there is a reason for self-blame for the wrong mistakes of you directly? Indeed, you have no reason to be ashamed of it. Self-reliance on things that are not for your personal, and also being convicted is to promote your own joy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Having joy does not mean you have no problems. No. His joy is that it has been able to address problems affecting the face of a positive eye. Change your thoughts, see the results. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. You can follow psychology in the Tanzanian newspaper every Thursday for discussions like this. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is written and "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Christian Bwawani "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98750835 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Dar educating free to pass science "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It has been written by Theopista Nsanzugwanko. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 04 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government of Dar es Salaam province has decided to educate grade four students who will go well in science subjects and elected to continue with form five and six. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For now the grade four students are continuing to do their exam to end education at that level. The Provincial Commissioner of that province, Paul Makonda (in the picture) explained about that decision when he received a donation of 200 desks worth 20 million shillings from the Almile schools in the city. He said his office has seen it good to start by educating those students so as to increase the number of science experts in various sectors in the country. He said that the teachers who teach those students will be given cash to two million shillings each and to be taken to transport in the animals and the wife or the husband of the concerned teachers. Speaking about the conflict of some of the parents of that school, Makonda urged them to use the procedures of taking the complaints that it is supposed to start from the district education officers and the province and not directly to the ministry. Also, he advised ministers not to work on the complaints that have been taken directly to them. The chairman of the board of the Kargument Shia Ithand Asheri relatives (KSIJ), Imagiaz Lalji, that owns those schools, said they congratulate President John Magufuli for his efforts to promote the education sector in the country. "It was a great shame for the country with big forests to transport logging outside the country while children get on the floor of the dust in the race to look for education," he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_66579341 But it's just trying to just make my brother to make you want children to go to school even when they get that ten or ten years, I thank God. People thank God, yeah. Mym And these children of friends do not want together they started doing exercises there and I don't know what these days are hiding? However, I fail, I have heard about even when it brought to who you don't have, who is called a person of MAT Ehr even there are two others from ghai Be mym Ehhe from Gor Mahia also are with the two there now, I don't know these days they are doing their exercises on the other side of the field.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_73307054 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. ASWEET is alleged to say U.S. Anthony Mayunga, Mwananchi amayunga @ scientanchi.corez Serengeti. A resident of Natambiso village, Natta ward in the district of Mara Province, Christopher Nyamasagi has been arrested for allegations of giving false information that one delegate was requested to be asked for sex so that they can get loans from the Social Security Fund (NSSF). He gave those claims in a public meeting that took place in Natta primary school, in front of the head of Mara Province, Magesa Mulongo. Before the arrest, Nyamasagi who had an envelope of a nuisance, he claimed that they had given money so that they started Saccos for transporting money and NSSF in Mara Province. "The Provincial Commissioner has completed the criteria for registration, after contributing more than 11 million shillings, to give education on how to run and later we opened an account in the year 2014, we will begin to follow up on loans, we are being treated so much and to reach a step to tell us if we want a loan, one delegate to give sex bribes so that we should be," claimed Nyamasagi. When the provincial commissioner is surprised by those claims, he stopped one woman of that village and denied him while he wanted Nyamasagi to apologize for women for his false information that aims at harassing them. That is when Mulongo instructed the police commander in that district to stop Nyamasagi to kiss her on suspicion of lying. He said the session aimed to discuss the problems and not to be arguing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query701 healthcare
query1901 soccer
query1868 fraudulent
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_80151864 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Violence in your case in Dodoma. These lawmakers seem like they don't have a plan to discuss what is going on in the country, but they have their differences. They are just my thoughts. For most of the time they seem to talk about issues concerning the elections and how to vote and win. Let me think even if he is a professor of those things.... because their style at whatever it is for the campaign and their lucky deputy speaker is not realized that they are campaigning for him, he must not go with them. It's Eve, Peter Serukamba and Stephen Ngonyani (water long), because the day before yesterday sat at a very long time in the corner of the building, I think they were on the way to start attacks. These members of parliament are praying for the position of the executive council of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) through a group of 10 members of parliament. However, apart from being seen if they are uniting the power of using a campaign, their colleague, Ashingston who seems to have an incredible speed in his campaigns that he does. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84296205 TRA there? The government will report Nov 24, 2016 by a space for Mountain in the article "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Sunday, President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Doctor. John Magufuli made the appointment of the chairman of the board of directors of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Bernard Mchomvu. Together with that chairperson, the whole board of TRA was also broken. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This step comes as rumors spread that the income situation is not well in TRA. Rumors are saying that the government's revenue have gone down, contrary to reports that are provided by the governments that end the citizens that the state of the economy is good. The most affected area is at the port. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The report of depending on the appointment of Mchomvu, and the violation of the board has brought discussions in various platforms, especially on social media. People are questioning whether the revenue situation is good and TRA has been crossing the goals, what changes are the meaning? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rumors, anxiety and debates gets more strength because it is not the procedure of President Magufuli to give information and reasons for taking any decision he takes. But, in whatever, the board was not broken soon. There is a reason. What's going on in TRA? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The announcement of the TRA board has been issued on Sunday, something that has announced many. There is security there? Or is it a reduction in a passer and now the leaders are getting you and find a teaser? What's going on in the kitchen? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kibano glamour! "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The replacement of the board of TRA is being viewed by many in the context of the state of affairs that has turned out since President Magufuli entered power, where he has taken a lot of measures to cut spending and filling loopholes of tax evasion. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We remember the huge crowd that was caused by discovered by thousands of containers that were passed by the port without paying for tax. The president held business people who were involved to evade taxes and forcing them to pay. That step of collecting debts of those who were able to pay taxes went hand in hand with the steps to prevent new tax evasion. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On the second side of the fifth term government of President Magufuli has taken a stern measures to cut spending in government. This step is believed that it has affected the private sector which significantly has been depending on the government as a new customer of its services. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Among the steps of restricting funds that are causing the fall of the private sector is the haphazard use of public funds through workshops, seminars, meetings, meetings, celebrations and foreign trips. In this use, you will see those funds were going to the private sector. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There are reports of business in the private sector to leave, especially those that were depending on the government. Some of the media have reported that some of the entrepreneurs have lost their bail, they went to pray for loans including plots and buildings. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While hundreds of buildings and plots have been sold to compensate the debts of loans, many people have also changed the lifestyle of life. Now that people have reduced the drinking beer, adding to drinking water and divergence has reduced. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government is saying that everyone should be implemented legal and there is no longer depending on the city's deal. Reports indicate that some of the entrepreneurs have been found to have benefited after their businesses rolled and unable to pay the loans they received from the bank and other financial institutions. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Already one bank has been taken down or, and reports show that profits in other banks have dropped. Is this bad state of the light of the private sector has a relationship with the movement of TRA that led to the board broken? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Online, the discussion is going on but the big one is a feeling: Maybe this, maybe. One contributor of the Social Forum Forum wrote: "Things are not going on (Magufuli) is heading to removing people and yet the problem is himself, it's growing up to the leaders under you are unable to make a decision everything moves to look for you only, that is why he is complaining. Things are not going on. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Another one wrote: "This guy is a lot. I have never seen a rich leader like this. Now if TRA is crossing the goals that comes to the board? What do you want to do now more than crossing the goal? " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Another joked: "And that work to choose and undo it until 2020 then he will come again" pushup "during the campaign instead of talking about industries. However, he changed every month it will not help. What is needed is the government to restore money in the circulation so that people should start their business and to get buyers to pay taxes. Incredibly he may have appointed the chairman of CCM who has no profession. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Overage said: "Kashmir hate the data of being buried? We told them every day they knew the music he wouldn't want to hear and they did not change the music themselves but they add a voice. No income. Only fake data. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Another citizen said: "I expect the goals he will not be treated now, I don't know what has happened? JPM will not forget the ignorance of being data. Don't ask the burden to add to Bombardier to be told they don't have money that is where the anger is talking to them. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_55479891 One And Mwamvua difficult one, two have been from. Radio But you will be told the big problems if a man, the number of communication station Mwaipopo, there were eight eight of the seven seven years in the year the celebrations are planning to continue providing news to be alone through that party, things are going to go so much. And Kajala are only eight of the two eight years, they are telling ten points and one big one.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_21818201 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Traders will be able to attend the conference "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. November 17, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. More than 50 companies are expected to participate in the business conference that is called Tanzania Comoros Trade Forum which will take place on November 19th this year in Zanzibar Islands. In that conference, which is the second in the country and that barenirmi will be the president of Zanzibar, Doctor. Ali Mohammed Shein, there will be a debate about the increase in business, investment opportunities and cooperation between the two countries. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Anna Msonsa, who is the coordinator of that conference from the union of traders and agriculture in Tanzania (TCCIA), said, this conference will give an opportunity to the business people both sides to know the opportunities available in these countries and how to cooperate in the issue of investment. He said the conference will take place in Zanzibar, it also focuses on business empowerment to private companies from Tanzania and Comoros. "It is good for all stakeholders and business people to come out in large numbers to attend the conference because, their presence will help to get an opportunity to discuss investment opportunities in both countries, that is Tanzania and Comoros," said Anna. He said, all business people from those two countries, who will attend in the conference will get an opportunity to show their businesses in order to get markets easily. The Tanzanian Embassy in Comoros, Mudrick Eoragha urged the business people to arrive in large numbers to meet their fellow businessmen in Comoros. He said that the conference has been a great benefit since its establishment, if this is the second one that took place in Comoros in April 2015. That conference has been organized by the government of the United Republic of Tanzania through the Tanzanian Embassy in Comoros, Comoros (UCCIA), TCCIA and 361 Degrees in conjunction with the union of business people of Zanzibar / Industry and Agriculture. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_16485112 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Head Brigades TWO People died in the World "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Khatib Suleiman, Zanzibar "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 16 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The commander of the defense force of the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF), Brigadier General Cyril Mhaiki, has died at Lugalo Army Hospital, Dar es Salaam where he was receiving treatment. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In his condolences to the head of the defense and security forces in Tanzania, Davis Mwamunyange, the president of Zanzibar and the chairperson of Revolutions Council, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, said yesterday that he has received a lot of sadness about the death of Brigadier General Mhaiki, who was buried and death the day before yesterday. Doctor Shein on his behalf and all the citizens of Zanzibar, he said that they have received in shock, the report of the death of that good commander who made a great contribution to the defense and security activities of the country. In addition, those condolences are explained that Brigadier General Mhaiki has left a huge gap, not only for his family, but by Brigades, TWO and the country in general, while insisting that his contribution will never be upon. He asked Mwamunyange to give those condolences to the family members, officers and fighters of all security forces and security forces. Together with that, those greetings requested the Almighty God to give him the heart of patience, relatives, and friends of the deceased in this difficult period of the funeral while asking the Almighty God to take his soul in peace. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88168583 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The organization involved schools to strengthen the anzi of trees in the world's environmental day celebrations today, the Forest Department (KFS) has launched plans to strengthen the rescue efforts of trees so as to reach a ten percent rate of forests in the country. This is through the bubbath plan of trees in the school. The project was launched by the government in order to educate students to participate in the planting exercise. "Some schools have been chosen to start that project including primary schools," said Mister Peter Kirigua of KFS. Mister Kirigua added that his organization has been cooperating with the government of the county county, to start a grasleep project of trees that will benefit the projects of moisters in farms, "said Mister Kirigua. He urged other governors to start the forest conservation committees in order to protect and preserve the forests according to the law of forests of the year 2014. And GASTONE VAKIA "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_99260006 JTwitter Third of the breasts from the Democratic Republic of Congo is expecting to arrive here in the country to set up a special camp to prepare themselves with the African Champions League and if here Tanzania will play against the Azam soccer team. Like this second Mazembe ended with his game against the team from there. In Sudan a full report and ours there is a game Soy Kawemba, chief executive officer of the Azam club has confirmed the arrival of mangoes in the country, Tanzania. Kawemba says he has received a request from Mazembe if they did not use the Azam equipment until the period in which the club will be in the camp here, the equipment were asked for Mazembe at the exercise and game where he says they have accepted the request. Sally says in the period that Mazembe will be Chamazi, they may play one friendly game against Azam. For now the Azam soccer squad in Zanzibar Islands to prepare for the shield of shield of the community against the disaster and can be returned, he said all the time to play the second league game of Mazembe. But let me tell you and this question is simple why the Mazembe has not requested not to use the stadium to build a place or the Moroccan stadium for those days. AHH medals SA t _ v da
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_15940649 In Rwanda Manchester United player United Wayne Rooney has won the award for the best player of the two thousand and fifteen years in England to defend again the pillars which he also gave two and ten years. This is the fourth time for Rooney who won this award which is regarded by members of the England soccer fans. Early December the England Football Federation It has set up publicly the names of the awards for the best player of the year in that country, two thousand and ten thousand shillings that he led to qualify to get into the finals of the European nations, two thousand and twelve matches that will be played in France in June while ensuring that it is competing for all the ten matches of their group and scored for a total of five goals for the two and ten thousand shillings per day. He also broke the record for the challenge The best scorer in the history of immunity by scoring goals and one record that was put by uthman in one hundred and eight hundred thousand were goals. Nine The two will be awarded Those awards before the friendly match between German and England in berlin
query3903 defense relative
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_77594961 The Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA) has met with big oil traders and agreed to request the revenue authority in the country to be used in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the shortage of fuel here in the country so as to deal with the deficit If the fuel will be treated by a shipment of fuel that is continuing to be aired at the port more and Africans are. One day after it is not a decade to announce the existence of oil shortages in some areas in the country amid the congestion of ships in the port of the port of the port of Energy and Minerals under the aurora has been forced to address the problem by involving the big traders of oil, I have been forced to find a solution that was taken by the authority that was called a quick meeting to find out from the stakeholders of the oil, the problem was we saw, therefore, it was a discussion so that we need a quick meeting to find out from the stakeholders of the oil, the problem was we saw that we were so that it was a discussion so that we look for the big training that you are doing so that we see them so that when we see them so that we can finish so as to finish so that we are going to end so that when we see them so that we see them so as to finish so that we are going to end so that when we see them so that we see them so as to finish so that we are going to end so that when we see them so as to finish so as to finish so that we are going to end so that when we see them so that we see them so that we can end so as to finish so that we are going to end so that when we see them so that we can end so as to finish so that we do so as to finish so that we do so as to finish so that we are going to end so that when we see them so that we can end so as to finish so that we are going to end so that when we see them so that we see them so as to finish so that we are going to end so that when we see them so that we see them so as to finish so that we are going to end so that when we see them so that we see them so as to finish so that we are going to end so that when we see them so as to finish so as to finish so that we are going to end so that when we see them so that we see them so that we can finish so that But what does it donate to the shortage of fuel, the head manager of the fuel production from our country of payment of slaughter is loved For the rest of the ten month Since we started ten month there is no sit-in in the edition From one date to today the things you talk All the ships that have not been for oil It is used below and TTMS, there isn't all our agrees ago they will be married ready for those special reasons, I made it for the same reason for the last month. The Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority in EWURA has said the shortage of fuel that is in some areas in the country is expected to end in a period not exceeding the coming days when it starts five. Dares Salaam Stanley leaders of religious leaders in Kigoma province have requested the government to make sure that it is controlling the statements that can endanger the peace of the country so that Tanzania continues to be a peaceful island in the world that statement has been made during the launch of the council of religious relations and added that the statements by some people need to be controlled otherwise could lead to the nation in the problems of our writer Dotto Elias from Kigoma has used the following statement Peace and love is the slogan during the launch of the council of good religious relationships in Kigoma province, the launch which was met with a large number of people from different levels led by the provincial commissioner of Kigoma, Lieutenant Colonel Issa Machibya, secretary of Bakwata, Kigoma province Majaliwa Hamadi and the chairperson of the union of churches in Kigoma province, the pastor leading the government to build a habit of handling early actions and statements that indicate the breach of peace and the security of our country will also not be a leader or a believer in any religion. To do this inequation is not paid That will lead to playing for the faith of one religion or the other to do the process and deliberate strategies of causing chaos in our country, Tanzania, on the basis of religion is to come out of furniture and brotherhood we have. Nelson Madiba and rozi, some of the citizens have thanked the step of the head of Kigoma province to form a council of religious relationships together with the chairperson of the council of good religious relationships in Kigoma Region Alhaji Shabani clothes to give a note to Tanzania to protect and grow the peace that is in the country. We should respect God that I know our thoughts have heard our thoughts He also used a lot of wisdom to do that. The period in which the violence has occurred. Even development activities or real Court Earlier in the Provincial Commissioner of Kigoma, Retired Colonel Issa Machibya urged the citizens to accept to be compared to the quarrel with any person who will make good luck in Tanzania, while I was in Kigoma Ramadhani words, asking the citizens to bring out those who are causing them in peace. It led to the breath of peace She responded: From being keen, we are in areas of ninety minutes While that was going on in Kigoma province, Singida province and some of the religious leaders have requested the government to take stern action against all those that suggest the peace here in the country if he reports our writer Leonard manga As we start very fast for their leaders here to be heard for the purpose of praying for peace in Tanzania, I request that we should wait for you. In what is secret and us And prevent us from everything that details and trucks, then we are going to be given the existence of a week or not whether we will be in the region not to be in our province to be peaceful and calm. Since that Singida Doctor Parseko Kone is chosen to be the chairperson of that sitting for a week Why are they saying Irene here have been given The Singida province History If they have helped in this and then the delegates are starting to contribute to where he has urged the government to manage the relationship of controlling religious behalf and take appropriate measures to the people that are violated the laws of the country. Perns do not receive a national permit Of course the concerned leaders do not have the news that I was shaking and Serious It made it all the time. Resulting from the government will do what they are elected without we have more authority than smoke, I don't remember the people wen because the faith of a person if you want to be respected is the property of a person will bring problems in the city. He said the government does not dare to change And we should not be appointed to me even if it doesn't pay for fifty inside the family Let us know there are effects Jamaatu has left out that it's not a good sign he said a place on the issues they divorced. You say You have come from good. For us Ehhe especially in mind Africa must be African saying the ban is banned A need Or the region remember the day Here is love with abusive language Mi himself will be together they are determined to meet regularly to look for its implementation that they agreed, which requires everyone to fulfill the excessive drinking of the country's laws and avoid the kitchen channel to convince them to do non-basic violence.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_97052387 French President fran Hollande He has called on world leaders to ensure that they are implementing their promises to deal with the effects of climate change Hollande has said the aim is to ensure that. The global temperatures increased more than twice in the centigrade. Orlando has said that France will increase its contribution from three billion euros to five billion to help the developing countries to deal with the effects that are led by climate change And the secretary general of the union of nations ban moon He said the initial talks in New York about climate change means that a close meeting will be a success Meanwhile, India's prime minister Narendra Modi has had talks with various leaders including the US president Barack Obama about India's economy is fast and there is no status to help deal with the harm caused by climate change India, which is third for carbon dioxide production has also been in plans to use solar energy to reduce carbon dioxide production. And environmental destruction So that his economy is growing rapidly, it has never been able to release its people drinking poverty. Of
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98386760 I tell Ahmed OUT happening? Perhaps there are things that have the loneliness expected to look like he can be a player. And even those who are going to test in Europe I don't believe that Arsene Wenger and other people should come to sit in the premier league this season to check the player that player seems to have things that for someone who is expected to be a player to play the ball. The first day all of these people in the farm that they were farmers now have left agriculture, they have called the two-day bonanza no these are people who were chatting also there where they came from where they came from where they came from. The goalkeeper, that is called kiloko was looking for the police team. The players who are in the end of the first number we did is to expand. That we need to focus on the premier league in choosing players of the national team, the market came out for themselves in a source of the premier league just let's go. Other areas that could produce first grade players in the evening Adams cannot go on. People who in one way or the other their daily activities is playing football so I don't know the match was in bringing together with the soccer team. They created a combination of provinces And what I did is that we have got our national team from our member. And we have added coverage to other members that I had. For that and the provinces preparations are that it is managing the league there are premier league matches there is the league. First, all the competitions are being played in the provinces and there is a program that is seen here we are able to mention the players who are coming Straight to the premier league, I can't mention them by names but you know that there are some of them who are looking for, it is not the news of playing two matches, but the players do not guarantee you have the profile and they are playing soccer in where they are. Thank you so much
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_42259584 Who says The police of New York City in America have noted that the letter of threats are brought in May or is a bloog last Friday inside the one of the most dangerous poison. Another letter to which it is being used in the city of Washington d _ c at the end of the week. His context in both the letters are threats to inciting a campaign to regulate the ownership of the American phone. And the mayor Tomberg is one of the most popular voices to be in order to control the allocation of those weapons We have finished with Italy
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_90126881 Simba "yalia" and the referee "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Vicky Kimaro "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 03 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The leadership of Simba Club today is expected to officially submit his complaints to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and the League Board (TLB) in order to make the referee for their match against Yanga, Martin Saanya. Simba and Yanga met at the National Stadium at the end of the week and drew 1-1 in the match that was full of violence. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The violence emerged from the leading goal of Yanga that was scored by Amisi Tambwe, which was reported because before he scored, the player wondered the ball with the hand that caused the violence to the fans of Simba because earlier Ibrahim Ajibu scored against Simba the goal that was rejected by the referee for claims he had lost. The fans went far from holding the chairs of the stadium and shut down the pitch. "With great sadness the Simba club has been very disappointed by the actions made by some of our fans to break the section of the National Stadium, an act that happened yesterday (the day before yesterday) in our premier league game against Yanga team..." We believe the evil actions made by our fans were caused by the decision that was caused by those referees especially Martin Saanya, "said Manara. "It was unclear how the referee used to accept the 'ball of the ring' of Yanga striker, Amisi Tambwe and refused the legitimate goal of our striker Ibrahim Ajibu. In that game the big violence broke out and caused the police to use extra strength by using bombs to stop the violence that some people were hurt. Moreover, Manara has apologized for the action of their fans to throw chairs and said they will communicate with the concerned authorities to pay them. "We apologize for this case and the club has agreed to pay for the cost of this destruction. The club will talk with the owners of this stadium to see how they get those costs, I hope that this will not come out again. " "However, we have already been surprised by the action of giving a red card to our captain, Jonas Mkude, this situation as the captain followed him to go to him who complained to his action of accepting the 'dirty' goal of Tambwe and all of us have seen Saanya was taking the while he returns behind and falling, and then got up and gave a red card to Mkude..." we believe this time TFF and the league board will give a stern warning to these referees to be a lesson for the wrong decisions of this type. "Also the club has complained about the action of our rooms for changing clothes that were given drugs that had the intention to affect our players before the match started, we requested the authorities to make a thorough investigation to determine this act that is not certain that is believed to be done by our opponents. "We know their mission is to make our players butoke, but our team of scientists took the right steps to make our players be able to finish the ninety minutes of the game with the ability and professionalism," he said. That is the second match to referee Saanya being reported by the goal of that kind which last season in the FA match between Yanga and Coast Union that took place at the Mkwakwani Tanga Stadium and Yanga won 2-1, the game broke down after the heavy chaos broke. In that game, Saanya was forced to break the game after Yanga's goalkeeper Deogratius Munish (Dida), being attacked by Coast fans while defender Oscar Joshua was beaten by bottles at the head. In that game, Tambwe entered the position of Donald Ngoma gave Yanga the second goal in the Simba's goal of the day before yesterday and Coast to complain about that goal being of support. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_38858000 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. National debate on death penalty "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Lucy Lyatuire "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 24 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Last week, the Legal and Human Rights Center (LHRC) organized a forum for the purpose of discussing the existence of the death penalty in the country, it wants to be abolished and ended on claims that it is against human rights as the constitution explains the existence of the right to live. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In that conference, it brought together various stakeholders for the purpose of discussing and expressing their thoughts on the presence of that punishment in the country and its importance. LHRC says, the right to live is the most basic right and the existence of death penalty is the right example of the violation of that right to live. Speaking at the conference, which was part of the commemorations to protest the punishment, the Director of LHRC, Doctor Hellen Kijo Bisimba, says the right to live is protected under Article 14 of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of the year 1977, however, their defense and the constitution is not right. The death penalty in the country could affect anyone who will be found guilty of treason under the 39 and 197 provisions of the law of punishment and so as to be implemented in that punishment, it is until the President has signed a certificate of implementation of the punishment given by the court. The constitution gives the right protection of living under Article 14 but has also been a defense of non-humanitarian punishment, brutal and intolerance under Article 13 (6) (e). The death penalty is violating the right to live, a way for the execution of the punishment by hanging is a brutal, non-humanitarian situation and it is capable of humanity. Moreover, that station is believed that the punishment is conflicting with the constitution of the country by anti-article 14 which provides broader protection against the death penalty, but it is 20 years where the punishment has not been implemented here in the country. Apart from that LHRC offers reasons for wanting that punishment to be in the country, it reached the time of the existence of a national debate on its presence and implementation of that punishment so that both sides can be revealed in legitimacy. I am saying that because in the conference organized by LHRC, the sides agreed to continue the existence of that punishment, they went further to be even in religious books they produce the opportunity to be implemented in that punishment for everyone who is faced with that kind of crime. For example, the Islamic religion explains that some of the faces in the holy book of the Quran, the death is the right to a person who killed him for manslaughter, his right to deny him is not okay. Furthermore, the other hand explained that continuing to implement the law and when the death penalty will be taken to ensure it is implemented. It is due to the existence of the situation to have the importance of the existence of a national debate which you will be able to ensure that you finish the issue of death penalty and every side will be able to give them to the community, there are people who do brutal incidents to the extent that the punishment is legitimate for them. It's on that logic, to be reached when various civil society organizations, to use their time by educating the community to avoid making mistakes that in one way can help them reach a place to face the death penalty. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_27063854 Now Mi is your success in your activities Has recently released thanks for thanks Your success as we think I have managed to fulfill my dreams that I had and even if I have not fulfilled all, I believe that you will fulfill more, I will remember the level that the patient has set up, we will not wish that it's why you'll find it since it has been changed. Mi have the kids reading and there are some who are also present at the moment the donation gets in that we know. Twitter lt; hes tgt; also as initially said or first, I don't know where it has given birth to another business, it is Home I don't know where the farm is a long time. That if you are doing business will be able to sell another business for you business to respect it now. Of course, things are encouraging, he will be a person who is wondering what is making any way because the only reason is it. In every successful sister I didn't think there are challenges in different ways But when I see it seems if you have all the challenges that we meet are there. There are nothing like you said the achievements that do not have challenges, although at a little level Let's tell me the challenges that he met with the challenges that you meet there are local farmers who die still young. As I was yet to be given, it is still a bit traumatic in the crossing. It's because they need great temperatures But with needing temperatures when you do not be careful you can find. There was maybe that you have benefited or summer has become a small window, they will die with another challenge that is facing, it remains a solution is that my production has been young because I don't have a machine of not given up to their home, but they don't have to go more than five hundred feet. Ehler is a little Little bit. So when I get the machine I believe that the challenge I will be finished now Because sometimes the old and eggs want to offer you to vote for someone who has organizations for a car in the morning from next week, we have to do what the reproductive eggs should be used We would like to know that and I think a big level of rearing is so much about the challenge, one of the people you have is to get the machine of given priority. There is what you do with that machine right now and he will be hoped if I hoped to create a very good machine that I will do with it for a while it is very clear that we continue with my work, Isaiah's trauma, so it is still a friend to get a good machine and we have been shown in some of those programs that do not benefit from those services and its support is very close to we are happy to speak up to identify them so that they can help. Ohh apart from that challenge, there are a lot of challenges I look for okay every person is not there is no big challenge than the comfort because because they choose. They don't have accommodation, if you will suffer from dying in there and something like that, where the medicine needs to really need medicine. But just by saying that, I request you to give a note to the viewers because we have been told that someone is telling you that he needs medicine then they are going to get the way he can. Maybe he may be no social welfare not to take it well, they will decide to use Twitter lt; hes' gt; I didn't say that for those drugs then I'll find out what I can find. The love of Fid Q in the state of dirt will be you have got a lot of cuts that will find themselves as a new thing, they should not be taught that it will be cleaned well as the way to rear those with other bags, you should be suffering but if you go for a cleanup when they don't need any medicine if you remove the responsibilities and even if you don't need it, but we are looking for a lot of medicine for you if you need to forgive you because they need a few but if you look at a normal state since they are required. When it remains a young man so as to bring strength that led to water only and I'm out of a little to get a force then we will end three days they don't need any medicine and they are very fast because it is milk and entertaining about seven years we have been looking for the eggs when all eight weeks have confusing the beloved country. I desire that starting to hear the news of the money that come and those using food are using food to MAS like food for chicken, they are using the toilet that has also been shared more than the big ones who don't want to be messy because their little is small that food that is good. So much so he can't hear but the pain we have bought it, you are bought by AHH food often is the tradition of myself and my family actually make you take a machine or you go to the machine, I tell me I don't know it. Congratulations again And now sister Suzan true Pina ask us to talk about money You know that there are small business entrepreneurs in the seated are waiting because they are delaying them. We have seen your success, we have seen how business mi and the money they are helping in the family And I personally and the viewers would like to know the money found? Because these are how you sell and you sell how these demands are and you sell them Also, his market Welcome. Thank you First let me start with the news of the market or To say the real business is very high as much as much. Although we started it was distraumatised Then you know what he started to find out how we get a little problem when we've started to understand what we are doing to explain to the people and it was hard for people to understand what we are doing to tell people and it was difficult for people to understand what I'm doing so that I am in line with you use this I will use it and I request you to get it. So after that I was surprised when I was surprised at the market when I remember the ones I was giving them a lot of hope to see the changes he announced now. So now the market has become so high that even I can't. Completely, you know we are now telling me on Monday as I start reminding the construction I want to breed that we are together but Now if you look at the price in the eggs of kwale people that sell between one thousand shillings directly to one hundred and five hundred thousand shillings for the purpose of the border to come up to the years and while it sucks it to make sure that it is a hundred of seven reasons. And say ten years of lyrics. Yeremia six and we are now if you get six hundred and if you have already read, how many other eggs wants him one for the death of my day to decide if they want until three years But for a year I can get a lot of eggs in Richmond is said that I can get eggs like three hundred times. Is the prayer for if you say that this will be a two hundred eggs to go because they are suffering from eggs AHH one hundred and twenty thousand eggs and it should start at the start of shillings. Sisters Suzan we are talking about twenty hundred million. Probably And It really makes us hope. And then you are chic in addition to you that you sell the nuts of it depends on the age that they have Saranga of one day is coming from we are unable to come and solve them from three schools. Slightly that I would have the ability of breed chicken selling one hundred and one hundred thousand shillings, there are others to be sacked until waiting, or they have said three hundred thousand shillings to rostam Kafumu Kigali due to its quality of quality and then they don't have the cost that when he bought a computer flat every time they are very fast, so it is a short time you can generate more than one week they sell if we were defeated. Four hundred thousand from five for a week Shinyanga seven if it is a reunion we are going to make those four weeks four weeks until maybe there are five. So, but up to it himself who is mentioned only has mentioned thirty schools to continue seven best websites first, seven people are sold from thirty and continued. Therefore they do Gathering also depend on brother jobo you can start with thirty-five chapters, I will be the usual person to be given because it is playing in parliament there are five legal reasons for the technical people to see. Because his meat is delicious that many places are sold for the people to support them It's people who haven't understood tomorrow ohh, it is very good news without doubt that you think there is a shortage that comes out to feel afraid that it is. Maybe Europe at the end of the change has come from the table is money Now do not forget to communicate with the Sudan's father of course through what your team woke up and changed, we will be happy to unite that the chronic is here today in the studio also because he has been a good character for the period of woke up and changed and today we see other fruits through himself and you can also look for it if you find the opportunity. Maybe now is the time we reach the end of the next half. What are your plans Our plans to advance or do a lot more things than those working in lt; unk, gt; It is true that it will be mine later is that I want to be a big farmer. But it's also calm, you see you have started completely and has told me that it has a very big market and what's going on in style we have to build the market. To come to be giving the needs of all the customers who are in the market Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; my plan is that I want to think of increasing production that is why he said I am looking for a machine that will be able to do. To help in the production of there is women and women. Mi is a Christian condemnation even I'm because it's not the news we are talking about, it starts to take a position here in a bit of the film because they still don't know anything else they will help the people from research to be able to land. Him because of their wives Several others I will be thankful that I will close this explanation that you have given and at the end I will close it, many Tanzanians have been seeing today, many Tanzanians have to listen to them. Mi would like to tell Tanzanians Ward Mi would like to invite Tanzanians We need to focus on rearing is very good especially the rearing of because when you bid farewell, they help you revenge and they also increase income and then we will see the cost they do not have a high cost I have since it doesn't get money and you still get the eggs of living your children and get sex. I will be thankful to look for God to continue to bless you and we are requesting that now we are in Karatu from now you are in a team of woke up and change we need to help in educating them in various seminars, but as people will come to you, we will also need to educate you in different seminars, but as people will come, we need the eggs we will bring to you not to require you, we would like to breed the diversity they were asked, we request you to give you open doors like God bless you so much. Viewer
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98168575 Ebola says that you can start a relationship with a person who have never seen the presenters Numbers School and later called you know the number and is called on the side. Value Much seeing them see the rise of election status Projects are sharing a man with words of voices to change the john, but then in his body was fighting up here. That is when discussing the economic problems and presumed if we have one national one in one eye. Ten and five years old and a Sea reporter. The trees shall remain well They put in Somalia but eight children who go to jail a real life. One hundred and three. La close, you have gone to many believers to take our need for walking with him and too many. They have They carry the men before that if you get a god, he will give one Teaching The new one that what should be done I have been promoted by a motorcycle driving. To see the wrong time when bringing services with one daughter, friends can be said to have tried until several years of Nigeria They were widely quoted. A problem whether or not? Tabu is mi I think this question was a disappointing issue if it would be illegal to talk about why. Look at the hard teachers And a mother That I see the government You are talking. After things like they think there is a third Lady posing in weaving the hair Human beings Your colleague even like ten as two hundred thousand, but it is punishable to look at any of the first time there have been doctors become easy but I lt; unk, gt; that he is wrong, remember you are asking for a salary of her salary with a board of self-drinking water. I have heard of the teachers who will teach to teach to go to a motorcycle I heard in English, I think that all the houses only will be in different places in the country, but some of the teachers are saying that there is no way for the teachers to get their salary from one hundred and a half a month because if you found that they have a little salary for the teachers who get a minimum wage, even if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one hundred thousand shillings for a month if they found a sin, if you find that the work he makes with a little more than one million shillings per month Speak without seeing him and mind, they desire to continue to meet with my colleagues because there is no work, it is a call because the issues are going on to work, you will agree with the events of sabotage is that they get money they understand they get the difference. He was told that he would not put it into the time to make it so that he had to do a motorcycle that will meet his needs and Without forgetting the concern because if you take a goal, it is also getting worse if they have done it, I just see it is that we should know it as a human and we have to try to change something that the government must look at me by changing, but we can't change anything that the government must take care of the family is a responsibility for the project he cannot run his responsibilities to other people. But for now, maybe we look at then blogging and it is true he uses all that we try to help him for more love but his phone to the bride and Mister seven days After seeing the effects To do the massage and who competed for them to come forward and continue with education is that education will open for teachers if they are the ones that come from school to more than eight motorcycle riders left parents who insult the activities of the officers. My favorite and public broadcast on the same day came out to end up so much and if you get a report but when it comes third on the wrong side For Bad They checked the parliament for one member of parliament. But for the bloodshed it doesn't care. What is that one is a good teacher like a time, it has revealed that it is delaying to live workers with the value of the youngest and this young man you see. Wading
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_96710534 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Conte fired Higuain London, England Chelsea's new coach, Antonio Conte has determined to sign Napoli's striker, GPalo Higuain for 45 million pounds next season. The striker of Argentina has been impressed by the coach since the long time and he is thinking to sign him in his squad of Stamford Bridge with an alternative for his predecessor Diego Costa. Costa has been alleged to be on the ground to land in the premier league of China which has become a refuge for many star players at the moment. Conte, who will land the club in July he hopes to complete the transfer of Higuain who saw him as an alternative for Diego Costa. Conte has made the striker of Napoli as his first choice to kill Stamford Bridge next season with faith that he can be convinced to move to Chelsea. There is news that Costa has been convinced by a big salary in the big club of China next season, although his former club, Atletico Madrid has also confessed to bring back the group to his child. Chelsea has been defending Costa who has a discipline problem, to the extent of explaining that it cannot sell at any price, but it will do that wanting to leave Stamford Bridge. Several Chinese clubs are ready to give a salary of 250,000 pounds or more for a week if he will accept moving to England. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_75012291 A number of children will be shocked to go to their normal class and then money after finishing the service we are able to have a meeting that we met after work Also ehr Ehorehr Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; we talked about a few words which are the parents we need to meet and what the parents die because there is a parent who lost her parent and we do not know what we are doing and we should be able to meet with a person who doesn't know now, we want to meet and let us know if we participate in each other. Ehhe halo Ohh ehhe mym made a few thousand jobs outside the same time, so it wasn't good because it did not get to the great charles to come okay, therefore, it's not just like that we should come, even if we are coming, we should even know what we are coming, even know what we are coming and even know what we are coming from Kenya like halo. I didn't get in English when the children were many and they were traumatic. Now that way I do when I called the parents' meetings, what can I do? My mom and truly mym In the third month we want to waite in the third month because of that AHH will be mi mym a children's meeting also for the fourth month where children need to do the high school insurance. Now it is a must for parents to know what to know and know what it continues and we want to give it to you to give money even if it's not a lot of money but the money that will be in support we will only give you a copy. Okay but Whether malaria The same The same time now and now has said that it has been organized, according to Pastor says Church mi I will not bring down three hours starting from the time he does not want until five hours what will happen on Sunday the day. Ehr We have not heard that but there is a meeting who is doing c _ P _ a Wednesday at ten o'clock and I think I had to explain if the leaders of what is different in the church, he said that and from the third month Ehr Okay okay, he says from the march, it will be three hours until five and a half hours or then people are going to Home now not, I don't know how you don't know what will happen, even if you start announcing the haiya. And then later The church will be celebrating five hours Haiya It's just fine. Now we have to go down to talk with us because there are these children who come alone in the church and there are those who come up with parents now they are not a different group, there are those who are coming up with them and they are coming up to those who are coming up to five and a half hours as if AHH will get if the doors are closed. Ehhe and ehr Okay The names mm halo mym kibaba as the door has been closed now, how will we organize itself, we will not go to the top five hours such as we stand up until we should prepare to go even if it is two hours earlier. Now, we will have to look at this year even in contrast to that more years like those are the pastor has said mym This work will be I will be remembering early then I go back to sleep When we get tired without the bedroom who like sleep should go back to travel. I will go to six hours, but it's hard to sleep on Sunday, it's hard to sleep on Sunday, it's hard for you to go. It's hard for others if they talk He has heard that news Who should look at that news Let's ask if he has decided to have reached two hours from five hours. And as he is in the house for six hours he will stay in order to stay in the order, if he will not plan he will be charged with the people coming up but maybe he will get a precedent washing there as they remain there with a mm mym ehhe could not end. Mym AHH I will make the world to create another whole world And when I find it? Ehr but now they will probably be back later at eight o'clock in the past nine o'clock and there will be another service after that, it will be from two hours until hours if it will be after one. When I don't know if there will be first sa I don't know.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_19071129 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This government's war by doctors Ikome, Jul 16, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Our country is in sadness of the conflict between doctors and the government. It is the sorrow and worry. Suluhu's fighting has not been found. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is sad, because, this is our country, they read it is our doctors and that is criticized is our government. It is the citizens of this country who are concerned and even lost their lives due to this strike. This is very sad. It is something that supports our country. Behind there, we insisted, and here I started to insist on my stand as a Tanzanian who loves my country, that there is no other way to end this conflict but it is through a brotherly relationship and friendly talks. The characters have to sit on the table as a tweet and recipe for this crisis for the benefit of our country and its People. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For now, every side you see a colleague is the one who is wrong. Therefore, each side has run handles and develop a "war of fighting." The truth, in the war, there will be no winner, because, as a nation, we all have failed. And we continue to fail More, because our People are dying for lack of reliable treatment. Basically the claims of doctors is basic and that's not about. And the government's concerns are fundamental and that will talk about. Therefore, both sides can talk to the right direction. It is not a wisdom for now for doctors to continue with their strike when the doors of the conversation has not been given a bronze medal, and not wisdom as well as the government "to boycott" talk to doctors on the pretext that the issue is in court. I join religious leaders who urged the government to cancel the case and strengthen this case at the table of talks. It is good and it is wise now for doctors to announce, for the benefit of our country, to postpone their strike immediately and go back to work to serve the customers with all heart. They do that even in the difficult environment they have, while the efforts to reach the right time and the government continues. I mean, any strike is a loss. Every day that goes with the strike means a loss to the country and its people. He's a loss of money and survival. That is why all the two sides are supposed to ensure they meet and find solutions to fighting hands. And in this twist, if there will be a situation of disagreement between the government and doctors, then, the Association of doctors to start now think the good way to run strikes different from this current. For instance, in accusing the government we could not have a strike to one hospital and not the whole country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It can also not be for a whole hospital but several units while services in other units continue. However, it could defend the disturbance and reach the government to discuss with doctors in improving their interests. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But this is "Wild strike" because of the nationwide strike has a "health risk" to the nation. Let it reach a place to contribute to our own country to go through cracking on strikes. I have been able to write, that it is true, to be almost every Tanzanian who woke up in the morning, or it is a patient or he has relatives, relatives or a patient. Therefore, there are millions of people from Tanzania with different kinds of diseases. It is a Tanzanian who depend on the medical services that are given by our doctors. And in our countries, the doctor is a very important friend of a citizen. It is a very bad thing, when the government comes to conflict with doctors. If you go to the conflict with the friends of the citizens. There is no place anywhere in the world, the citizens came out to hate doctors. Therefore, it is a tragedy when the government is unable to finish his differences with the citizens of the citizens through the way of talks and even reach the point of doctors who refused. In our countries, the medical surgeon who was shown to the money of paying taxes and for many years is needed. Assistant medical officer is needed. And even if he was to be the assistant physician of the medical officer, he would be much needed. Similarly, the midwives and assistants, senior nurses and their assistants. They are all needed. In our countries, the government should not supposed to reach a step to threaten and even fire the doctors. That's an end to happen only when all other ways of finishing different ways to resolve conflicts and doctors will have been denied. And why are competed for? Well, all of Tanzania would like to see this fight between the government and the doctors to be resolved quickly for the search of hands. Nash again, the biggest for now, is for both sides in this conflict to recognize that for now the tension is going on will not give a winner, it is because, in what happened and what is happening right now, all of us, as a nation, we have failed. This is time to put it wise and wisdom. We should do all, but, the Arabs of the Arabs of the conflict is now a conversation in the atmosphere of torture, then. God bless Tanzania, God bless Africa. "IT's "IT's "IT's "IT's
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_80977707 Many viewers close to thirty database Story is African, we visit the National security College here in Dar es Salaam where we want to look and learn how things are going on at the college and check on how the station can promote Tanzanian tourism to report at the executive director today, the news is suffering and continued. My name I would like to read is the acting chief executive officer of the National Institute of Tourism physique. There is a relationship between the sheer and this university or other places like Temeke, the history of the National Institute of Tourism starts from one thousand and nine thousand shillings while there was being launched as part of the new Africa hotel at the time preparing for the people of service in a hotel. And it was a short course for three months at the reception Preparation of the organizers in preservation of houses and teaching of teachers In one thousand, seventy-two hundred thousand shillings has blessed us to have succeeded in the buildings that they thought at that time being in Dar es Salaam. And a transformed name is a hotel for hotels in the hotel When it is set up under the tourism organization, it was called Tanzania, which was losing. It's going on to pay taxes That's the reception of AHH Production they have a house And preparation of food It went like that up to one hundred and seven hundred names during the week I have been handed over Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism And then it will be called the Story well It will continue to pay taxes And the level of certificate for Twitter workers While the tourism sector continues to grow up with the needs of organizing services in the hotel and maybe the father is increasing, so the government may see it is good for now to end the station two thousand and only one will succeed. Temeke in the port of the port for that half the port about the star I haven't lost it. Women sit down Because of us The same buildings will see one side with a college also we call a call The other hand is covered. Going on Two and third after seeing that there is a need to improve the government to see there is water to improve services. Equivalent to customers in hotels and restaurants and all other places does not support his own piece of the center, through its thirty-year law of the government agents of the year, let me have seven. Striving to bed one two and three beds as a government agent with the aim of providing training in nearby fields and to help also do research and advice so the main aim to ensure that the training offered in this center meet the need for customers that are given to people who have the UK skills and experience. If they are depending on the customers' college of tourism, it is projected that all those who like to join the studies in the next field will take them registered to produce a topic for accommodation, then then we are currently being theft in Nairobi, the picture because all is at the certificate level and one of the forms of joining Mwanza in Dar es Salaam city at the National Tourism College in Nairobi Road, I have moved to Mwanza, the wildlife college of Zanzibar in Dar es Salaam at the university of tourism, a garden together with the Temeke campuses that is in involved in the minute or call the number here.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35857279 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ummy Mwalimu and advice to men in Dodoma. Sons and men are now good advice from the minister of health, community development, gender, elderly and children, Ummy Mwalimu. If you listen to Ummy is that it has not banned men walking or having an affair with women. Ok, let me sell what happened in the parliament and especially the comments from my leader on love. It is now, "men do not play with female children who are studying and instead you need those things to go to the street women are there." I Don't know whether the local women will agree with this mother's statement, because it's like he's Going to be a fool of hungry. But on the second side some women can see a happy thing for them, because students are now being beaten "stop." The locks? How are they found? And they will have an identity in which time? This is not my thoughts, he is when you go back to take him to ask him to ask for answers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_11049192 It is hope that if Tanzanians know there are days of future products in the coming generations, I get infected with skin diseases and all the dangers that can come out because of wearing clothes that have been used by other people, the small-hand businessman in the city had been donated to blame the government that it is involved in weaving the plans. So they have rejected the government as a government It should be condemned to provide education about the effects of Mtumba's clothes While write us We didn't have income because the income has requested and he is speaking with crops everything that is in the second-hand clothes that have banned it from it is together with sidekyula dguarantee skin and box. Josephine donation like t _ v Dar es Salaam Heads
query3217 EXAMPLE _OFcourts
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_26012050 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. RC ordered the area of the clinic? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Veronica Mheta, Longido "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 28 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Director of Kibo Safaris tourism company, Willy Chambulo has asked the Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo to ensure the area of Olmot County in Sinyai County, that district is measured and given documents. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The aim is explained to enable an investor to move the community services closer to the citizens, including primary and secondary schools. He said, "for now the area is being attacked by citizens and that situation can cause an investor to give up." It is stated that the investor has shown good intentions to build houses for teachers and servants in the health sector, therefore it is good that the area is measured by having documents. He said that yesterday after Gambo visited the clinic area and saw the real situation of infrastructure, including the way the investor has sacrificed for the purpose of helping the hospital services together with the construction of houses for teachers and modern nurses. He said that in that health center, he is expecting to bring a machine to shine and that the existing challenges are lack of electricity. He asked Gambo to help them so that the electricity will go to that center and eventually the citizens can benefit from investors because some of the tourists are at the center to see how citizens get treatment. On his part, Gambo congratulated Chambulo in helping the community as an investor in tourism and ordered the lands officer of Longido district together with his fellow experts to arrive at the area on Monday so that they were ime. Moreover, he wanted the manager of Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) Arusha Region, Gaspa Msigwa to make sure he takes electricity in that area. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17339461 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Participatory security to be strengthened to fight 'mouse' "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Shadrack Sagati "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 12 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Many areas of Dar es Salaam for now is not safe to live. It is not safe because criminal acts conducted by various criminal groups are growing significantly. The week does not live without hearing incidents of robbery in the areas of Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Those actions have done people to live in fear because there is no incident that the police have tried to catch up or even stop it before. Apart from that robbery using fire weapons, but there are also groups driven by mouse Road, Wolves and Black Americans and many others have been a big threat to the residents of Dar es Salaam as a result of doing criminal acts without even having any fear against the state agencies. Since May this year, these groups use traditional weapons like gays, machetes and knives have been a big threat in the areas of the outskirts of Dar es Salaam and despite the looting, they have also attacked people who are attacked by swords and knives. An example of the day before yesterday in Mbagala, it was reported that one of those groups made a Little one of the officers of the Defence Force (TPDF), Jerald Malilo who got serious injuries in the head and forced to be admitted at Lugalo Army Hospital. Malilo was injured while entertaining at work during the morning, despite the soldier but also many citizens have already discovered that one way of getting income is to make the people who have ever worked early in the morning. The day before yesterday in Dar es Salaam, such groups stormed people's homes and killed two people and made looting. Such events when police arrive in these areas have already been killed or injured badly and looting have been done. But there are other groups that are running the looting at night in different areas. These have been stormed even in bars for the project to get anything to believe that people who go to bars are those who have money. There are also other groups doing their crime at night, they feel that most of them wear people's homes. They are searching for homeless people may be interested in getting any amount of money, mobile phones, non-cell phones and laptop computers. These youth groups have already confessed because they are doing looting or invading people's homes, the behavior of the people of Dar es Salaam for fear of giving support they have contributed to the groups to be good. But also the lack of security including one of the community police in many areas have encouraged those youths to do their crime for more freedom. Many areas of the city of Dar es Salaam have no police stations and for example residents of Dar claim that the police service is available at the Stuari station which is far from that area. My advice is that the area like Kitunda, which has more than two wards, that is Kitunda Ward in Dar es Salaam and Msepwa is good for the police to be in custody for 24 hours than it is now in Kitunda Ward being supported at 4 o'clock in the evening. This is dangerous and provides an opportunity for these groups to do their crime for more freedom. Even other areas outside the city like Mbweni and it does not have a police station depending on the idea, something that is very dangerous. In the previous years, the community seemed to help a lot in strengthening defense. The chairmanship will be present at that time, Said Mwema, by recognizing the least the police seemed to afford that area and the crime has significantly reduced. But the departure of IGP Mwema should be like he left with participatory security. I suggest that controlling these criminal groups must be a stable security. The police are interested in participatory security in our neighborhoods so as to get people to cooperate with the police in making security of citizens. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query4275 fight for justice fight for fairness legal
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_93821098 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Master J tells Khuini he left his wife "People to understand that she's a But of a Woman" "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Master J has decided to disclose the reasons for leaving his wife born with three Young children. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking on a pissors this week, the veteran producer claimed that together with their marriage die, his wife is the only woman. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "You can be a good person and he can be a good person but when it comes to the matters of the heart was being celebrated," he said. "But not that one person is bad, I'm good, no. People must be aware I CAN't Take away from her - it's a lump of a woman. He respect and she is a good mom. It's just that we were different. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, Master J has admitted that his wife and they have not given their blessings to his relationship with Shaa. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "That's very hard until now," said J. "You know this issue is giving them a lot of children, any separation of children are the ones who suffer, therefore I am so proud to be with them close, we are communicating with everyday whenever I get time, we don't get it OUT, but it hasn't gone on stage that we don't get it OUT of that." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Master Jay Akin and Children "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Master claims that the matter happened to the media wanting to know from him he got a problem to adjust and put it away. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "In our culture we here in Tanzania is a very thick issue. If the marriage has been denied they are ready to just sit on the marriage until the day God calls it but it's not healthy. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_21421658 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Social protection is important to deal with our writer, Mwananchi, article @ tz.nationamedia.com you need safe drinking water after destroying it is important for food security because it reduces the possibility of getting bacterial infections or fungus that are causing different diseases including sumves. Sumove is a type of poison that is being constructed and slaughtered or fungus that are in different crops especially cereal like maize, millet, wheat, rice and guidance. The skulls are seen as a fool. The maize is gruered by air pollution, compared to other cereal. Other crops that can be attacked by these fungus, despite grains are together seeds of oil for example nuts, cotton, sunflower and cashew nuts; pepper spray, food, food, inevitable; vegetables and fruits that are not shaken. The animals that eat the skulls usually have the possibility of affecting their crops for example milk or meat. Air pollution may occur before and after harvest and cannot be removed from common ways by cooking for a long time. There are health effects of eating food that include the death of the consumer of that food. Usually, the effects depend on the amount of poison in food that was signed, last time since it can be used, the age and the health of the consumer in general. In August, several people were reported to have lost their lives in Dodoma province after eating food that was believed to have HIV infections while others were hospitalized due to its effects. The effects of a short-term effects include the pain of stomach, vomiting, fever, degedege, not in many blood, yellow, eyes and parts of the body to toe. The person showing these symptoms be taken to the health center that is close quickly. For a long time, summed up can cause cancer, kidney and throat cancer, affecting the immune system of the body and family, affecting the growth of children especially under the age of five. The effects of the economy that is sick as a result of the infection of a gloves causes a reduction in production activities. The burden of medical costs also affects the economy of one person, the family and the nation as a whole. Moreover, the business of crops outside the country which is important in promoting the national income may lose the market if it is known to have a huge amount of summed. A good example is the loss that Tanzania got in the year 2008 after selling 15,000 tons of nuts at 424 million American dollars per tons and was revealed to have a lot of dirt on the type of aflator in. That price was small because of the errors compared to the income which in another country got. South Africa for example, that year changed its nuts at 1,473 dollars in tons. This is because they did not have a huge amount of sumves that could endanger the health of consumers. The advice of the officers at the stadium is important and the farmers should be able to give priority to ensure the crops are taken and taken care of the international standards so as to avoid losses like this that emerged approximately one decade ago. Controlling the gloves, there is a lot of ways to deal with the spread and affecting crops. Most of these ways are made after the harvest of the cereal. To ensure the maize or cereal have been set up well before putting the reserve is one of those ways. Before putting the park, it is advisable to identify the grains involved in order to remove the dirt and keep the poor, torn or attacked by insects. But the farmer can avoid paying the maize or other cereal in soil. Experts advise the use of anja, greenor floors, a clean floor that doesn't have any kind of mouse. Precaution should be taken even at the time of considering various important issues for food security. The store should be clean and with a good weather in all times. Another important thing is to avoid mixed grains of the past and the new ones. It is not reported to mix crops from yields of different seasons for the safety of the concerned food. This helps not spreading infections, if you are in one of the harvest. Wolves are important to be monitored carefully. The experts suggest that those willing to teach him in the new sacks and a Short place where there was not a floor. Drugs for sprinkling in order to increase their lives, you are also important. If it depends on putting the reserve for more than three months, it is advised to get advice from the agricultural expert who are in the report in your area about good storage and how to use it. A reliable source of the literary room is another priority of priority during preservation to avoid infection. The room or the story should have been abducted well so much to remove the possibility of cereal to be rained on. Warnings have seen as a result of mobilization offered by health stakeholders, there has been a huge awareness of people to like eating disorders that do not be exposed or dona. The organizers of these cereal are supposed to be keen during sexual orientation so as to eliminate the possibility of it to the fungus. There are several important things to recognize. To sort out and label them cereal so as to remove the dirt and grains that are attacked by insects is among those ways. The other step is that it is enough of the maize or cereal that you want to listen and run up until it comes well. This helps to make sure that all the animals have been removed before grinding. There is a need to grill cereal, you have come out of the anja, grew or turf to prevent the pollution of fungus that are in the ground if you are believed below. Even after grinding flour a database in the body of greed, torture and allowing them to make it easily. If possible, a tool with a feminist section. However, the scientific report shows how grains is reducing air pollution, so I advise the eating of a stable health. Since the maize and cereal in general is the main food for many citizens in the country, it is good for all stakeholders in the room with the value of food to consider the health regulations to avoid sumves. By considering the best agricultural regulations, ranging from conservation, distribution and processing of maize and its products to reduce the effects that affect the community by eating food and teves, thereby increasing the guarantee of safe life. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1725 sister sibling morning
query1645 knife
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88741077 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Couple arrested for looters "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Hellen Mlacky "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 29 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Police is holding the couple on suspicion of collaborating in the use of weapons in the areas of Dar es Salaam city. The couple Bakari Abdalah (40), and his wife Sabiha Omary (28) is the residents of Kinambeu CCM, Kigamboni in that town. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking to journalists yesterday, the police commander of the special region of Dar es Salaam, Simon Sirro has said on September 25 this year, the suspects were arrested in the patrol in that town. He has said that after the interview they went home to the suspect area of CCM, Kigamboni, and they visited them, they got one officer of the Browning car with registration of number Car A081900 with two bullets and five bullets with Nokia Luse phone that was taken in the event of land grabbing in Mivumoni Village. According to commander Sirro, Abdalah and his wife are continuing to be questioned and they will be arraigned in court after the investigation is completed. In another incident that happened the day before yesterday at 4.00 am in the area of Viwege in Pugu area, the police officers were worried about two people in a motorcycle that his registration number have been forgotten. After those people saw the soldiers heading to their equality, one jumped in the motorcycle and throwing a bag and run away with a motorcycle, he disappeared for driving his motorcycle at a speed heading to the forest. He said that the police tried to grow, they found a weapon of SMG type that was canceled his registration number with seven bullets inside him. However, he said the efforts of searching for suspects are continuing to identify the events they have ever done. At the same time, soldiers at the Tegeta area near Feza Secondary School found three people sitting on the ground and saw the police fled and left one weapon of Mark 4 with registration TZCAR 86274. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58092509 Salaam And some of the fans to attend in one place where to witness the revolution cup that is going on in Zanzibar Islands. Because of dissatisfaction with my love there is no place in numbers and participate in it. That cup but also have explained their satisfaction with the decision made by the decision by considering the ten and seven laws of the soccer game to go to Zanzibar island again when they take this take. But Speaking about problems in the level of dowry during the match of Yanga and Azam's Azam FC _ f _ c the fans are saying that the same depending on the standards of the teams that were appointed in the competition. The team is filled with the smallness of the name but they are still their level is very good. Staying at fit Their That they look for games to come in interviews to the youth more in the game of those teams between Yanga and Azam that was the game of those teams that is forced to go to a draw of one goal in one goal. It shows a big competition that led to fans to tell us that he is going to the stadium, however, together with those hours the fans have also witnessed the police to prevent the violence Esther the team entered the pitch, they entered the Azam and Mtibwa match. Preventing the violence and the Azam and Azam match when they released the Azam FC captain _ f _ c. I don't leave it immediately after being shown a red card Just after finishing the game the teachers of those teams had different opinions about this game, it is also one of the lucky ones but when you have heard the budget, it is a game that everyone had to win.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25045751 Secretary of the ministry of health guarantee Doctor Mpoki Waiting Waiting for a minister has said that the government is planning to increase the distribution of medicine to health centers, let's listen to the journalists last month after rumors emerged that the lack of medicine and medical equipment It was rampant For now The real access to medicine is waiting for the same as fifty percent and third. Because of one hundred and five important medicines in store, there is no seventy-one medicine for those drugs and others are at the service centers. The availability of medicine will be strengthened more in October this year. Now. And the Sea of medicine uses long-term contracts And they don't want the framework. In order to strengthen the availability of medicine Now Are they needed according to money is found And as we'd like to insist. That ehorimbi already has received approximately twenty billion shillings. Which will help in ensuring that we continue to have these drugs as I have spoken earlier. Now that is the minister or secretary in the ministry of health Doctor Mpoki Ulisubisya Speaking about the issue and how the government of President Kohn alcohol Magufuli It is dealing with last year the Sea of medicine in Tanzania is known as Hemed. It was reported by various media outlets in the country to stop the delivery of drugs Which is important for the government's health institutions until when the debt of ninety billion shillings would be paid by those institutions but the spokesperson of the Sea of medicine in that country, Etty Kusiluka Holding that despite the complaints of lack of medicine, it has enough medicine, Etty Kusiluka lets tell us now this lack in some of the hospital centers continues to be talked about? Medicine is not a hospital not to end the medicine no medicine Medical stores, there are drugs that have started to enter and requested the medical stations when they start asking the video And how long will it take to all hospitals and institutions require A three-day job to buy medicine to protect and distribute for helosi are spreading drugs due to the application that they voted for. The request for all the hospitals that have brought in prayers Going on the drugs that are being spread and taken to those in the world We have been rumors that if one year passed, it said that those who maybe have not paid. The money that they were. They are supposed to pay they will not get those drugs, there is a fact that those rumors are being waited is to ensure that a Tanzanian citizen gets treatment and that is why even if you hear those who had no weapons were given medicine for the exercise and take medicine to them. It continues as usual, other issues of paying debts that I have left us we are doing with communication They pay those minerals from the time and when they get the money who say that they do not get medicine, maybe it is just a time but this issue will be opened here recently when you go to the concerned hospital, there is no medicine to ask where the area also requested and asked them that they gave them drugs. Unless otherwise If it has been forced to see how it is to see how it gets to us when it comes to it. Hospital lack of medicine does not mean that in a medical store there is no medicine where the government or those hospitals have no money to bring some medicine to be given by the minister maybe the situation is now. At war if a hospital doesn't make medicine has continued every government's health center and government hospitals. Which has continued to get money from the hospital where the university is being viewed as their accounts have money then given medicine but not that they are giving money to be buried about getting drugs that happens is that the government's budget and isolation and put on their accounts were given to jail but they also have other income sources that they can add to where it comes to. The other revenue, which include the spot-spot of the prosecutors. Basket Fund things like that they can add to where they feel that they have more medicine needs but hospitals like hospitals do not Direct to buy medicine has increased more than using money that are defended by the government So the money that they are getting extra which from other revenue sources can come to them and buy additional drugs We continue to give medicine to drugs not to bring that their accounts did not like enough. That is why I tell you that we are looking at more. Health, a citizen's health is not the same as something else or food or something that is health that is why even the people complaining, we need to live together and that even his account if a small number we wait but other things get missing, maybe therefore you are being called an unprecedented person and he is gay you to tell you go your account doesn't have money not to do so.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_65121723 Young people: A child, a child "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is written by Basil depression "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 16 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. How do I get there, greet the stakeholders. Before continuing to write what I intended to apologise to the girl who introduced himself by the name of Mercy on her. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to Mercy, his lover has given birth to his mother (mother of that girl). Mercy also has the pregnancy of the boy. The mother of Mercy has admitted that he has pregnant he was given by "her in-law." It is not normal in our community but that's the real situation, the guys "chewing up" mother and child. What happened to Mercy confirms that, the one that you love and believe him is the one who is able to thank him, to hurt and even destroy it. After that, I congratulate the parents of the child Rashed Al- Hajjawi (10) of Palestine by recognizing the talent of that child and develop it. I congratulate you because it is not many parents especially Tanzania who are doing efforts to recognize their children's talents, and some are aware but there is no effort to promote them. The child Rashed has the talent of playing soccer to an amount of being given the name of Messi of Palestine. That child has been born in Norway in the year 2006. Lionel Messi is a soccer player of Argentina, and he has been the best player of the world five times. For what they saw the video showing the talent of Rashed without doubt that they have accepted the ability of that child to play soccer an amount of compared to Messi. In that video, Rashed was playing soccer with his colleagues, but nobody was able to block him. He adds that how she wants, he has a great ability to own the ball, attacking, he is playing and annoying, and the great ability to follow the goal. Juventus club has discovered the talent of that child and has already signed, so after several years he will start doing his in Seria A in Italy. Perhaps there are Tanzanian children with different talents but it is sad that parents including youths do not have a culture of mentioning and developing. Children's talent is a treasure to them and if they are continued to use them in the coming years to get the money that happened to Messi, they are coming from Christiano Ronaldo, Marta Vieira da Silva, scientist Usain Bolt, basketball player (retired) Michael Jordan and musician Janeth Jackson. The good Day. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_60835420 Yesterday, this is the one he is speaking lome halo daddy, it is unpredictable because we now want to talk to Swahili for ten minutes now, we will talk to Swahili that you know even you can tell you but it is Swahili for ten minutes. Halo halo claim Okay we will be ten minutes the ten minutes will be enough, it's about why it is saying what is the record of what is it. Ehhe blaze improved ten minutes AHH I talk about anything. Everything I was recording because we should be vegetables, I'm in Town in the way I'm in Town first I want to come back to you when you come to you, you create a girl there and wait for my AHH as you are with the blessings here. So you are in Town okay for the office to let the game be the way you are and who will get me away. No one has talked to his phone to add his arm in the moment, I will start my ten minutes to speak. And now if mi I went to work It is in line for ten minutes not we have talked about four minutes already we won't come out and get out in the alone. In July sure there is sure that it has reached four minutes okay because mi at this time I went to the pipeline when I went for a long time when I am not in a car I will not come back and get back? Yeah, we are talking four minutes and it's about it. At this time you are in that office. I have come from there with money eastlando we don't have from there now? Okay what is this lt; hes tgt; I don't know what we are coming? The guys even today I would like to go back today tomorrow @ AHH And once again he asked him the Story of yesterday. Those area yesterday is not know, he has said that the weekend will take you a release. Now we are saying this weekend, I know it is today that you are not today is good. Today, today, he has said today if you want to take it first, let's go back it is equal to AHH but okay if you are waiting until the weekend you will take you to those of the ones that you do not want to know what you do not want to do with them and then you are at this time you see what is happening in Town at this time you know what is happening in Town at this time. AHH let us come so far until how many hours we are. They see them eat when I'm in a car heading to the pipeline, I see just one of the problems that I have happened but not you know that people of city Council are troubling people who have not paid rent not you know he does not pay for their shop they seem to do a step. Why again, Jane ehhe now wants to tell us about seven hours. When I suppose the pipeline you can be Sure you can kill me from it. Also read
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_95464368 Ehr but it's still the one that he will do now, it's God's god, he still joined and still entertaining. And see two. Ehhe must return to kneeling when you must ask Kasimu Ok then they will have to take a prayer. If that is where I came to know a SERIES in secret is the application that we'll do everything that I want to do so I want to do this day coming from every time you understand is no to you for God but not all every time I thought to tell me what you do. But ehorehhe ehorg Mym.......... We don't know this here are two people who love you to love you and a child who is raising so it is to sit down and talk like adults We should ask you to ask me how it is what I do, I would like to wait and see where they are married I am surprised but you see when it was alone. Continue living well Ehr
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_76581501 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. ALAT will have a conflict with the government "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. December 2, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The union of local governments (ALAT) in Tanga province has announced the conflict with the central government claiming that some of the district commissioners have been blocking the servants, elected officials using the authority that they have to put in custody. The chairman of ALAT in that province, fre.Sadick Kallaghe, said that the day before yesterday at the meeting of that community that took place in Muheza town, while on the resolution of their session that took place in Pangani District, September 22, 2013. He said they are not ready to see any leader of the Central Government is blocking local government servants. He added that the main government has distributing power to local governments as an illusion because most of the money in every year's budget that are taken to the council especially the funds for development, are coming in delay or not completely. "The result, citizens lack faith in the leaders of the council including politicians... there is no good relationship between the central government and local government here in Tanga. "Some of our staff are oppressed when they implement their work, it has reached a step even the councilors are placed inside but because the issue of the councilor of Mswaha Ward, Korogwe district, Tesu Kipaku is in court, we cannot speak," he said. He said the local government is the full authority that was made legal as the executive director, chairman of the council, heads of departments, councilors and other servants. Kallaghe who is also the chairman of Korogwe district council and the councilor of Dindira Ward, said that he is one of the people that were harassed from his district and some of the members of the parliamentary committees who visited that province in the year 2013 because some of them have their agenda "pocket." "In the sessions of the leaders of the council and parliamentary committees, reports that are provided are not true, the member of parliament is standing and said that the council of Korogwe has got dirty documents, he asked where he got these data, my council has never got a dirty documents five years in a row," said Kallaghe. He added that another thing that deprives local government leaders is the main government to announce to the citizens that "it has given" billions of money to the council while it is money for salaries for servants and those of development projects. Kallaghe said that more than three months, the main government has not taken money to the council for the purpose of normal expenditure (OC), funds for development projects more than four months and those of compensation for sources which were canceled (GPG). "Apart from these funds not being given, it is still announced that there are many funds have been taken to the council, and we are confusing the citizens," said Kallaghe. And the local government officer in that province, Maggie Chande said the local governments don't have a lot of money as claimed by the central government, thus they are unable to implement many development projects instead of the local government servants have been called and put inside. "The leader can lead people to disperse or gather, we must use wisdom because we don't rule the animals... I have noted that the leaders are elected at the age of this age is a problem, the old man is elected at the age of more than 35 years," said Chande. And the Deputy Mayor of Tanga City, Mzamil Shemexit said some of the leaders are being given power where to put inside a servant, the executive of the village or the chairperson does not eliminate the problems but increase since it is cold. 24 January this year, Mister. Kipaku was placed inside the order of the head of Korogwe district, Mister. Mrisho Gambo is alleged to have called for the general meeting of the village on January 21 and urged the farmers to go to burn the path, a cow of breeders on January 22 this year. As a result of that situation, Mister. Kipaku announced the resignation of that position claiming to be assaulted by Mister. Gambo. Speaking to summer, Mister. Gambo said that politicians contribute towards the conflicts of farmers sometimes they are presenting to the campaigns when they get power they will provide breeders in the areas of farmers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_82642421 May 31, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. ((I request to apologize for starting this part of my discussion with another paramedics. Parandesi of this week has been forced by the head of words I was appointed for this week's post: OBSIZO. As I explained at the end of last week's article, I fail to get a Swahili word that will explain to the concept of western word "obscurantism" or "obscurantist." In fact, there are a lot of concept that we know every day that has not been given an appropriate words in our language, and this is one of those. In the situation we have, then, I would dare to say that it is fit, occasionally, we should join us, let us go, let us go, let's go with new words from other languages. Isn't it all the languages, as well as Swahili, where?))) A man who is described as obscurantist (obscurantist) is the one who thought that he is knowing and he went on to her all his strength, and he was ready to even go to war to defend his "skills". It is a person who believes the things that can have been called and at the time, and the knowledge of the show is being found, but he does not want to hear or see the whole thing that can lead to its ignorance. The community can also be jailed and shackled. In fact, it is a community that goes on anti-anti-anti-anti-corruption systems, because the society is building its religious system for a long time, and put the systematic and mistaken procedures, including law, regulations and traditions that make sure every community community is taking a knee in front of religious beliefs, often by fear to be punished. All of us have been born in the communities with several faith that marched and instructions together with the publication. We have developed communities in faith, law, regulations and procedures, basically without having an opportunity to question the need to do so. In this way, even those instructions that are beneficial, or the prospect of benefits, we follow and view them without knowing what we are doing so. Many African communities don't allow children to ask a lot of questions, especially if the questions have a direction to highlight the basis of common faith. When a child wants to know more than he needs to know that he is going, or he will be told it is a rude or a tooor, he does not respect the older, and so on. The result is that, in many sectors, we have built our communities on the basis of old faith that don't have gays in today's world, and it is not surprising that development we are like. Our communities don't allow analysts, and without analysts, there are no progress. I will go back to this before the journey. This situation has a relationship with issues that I have discussed for some time now, especially better education and health services to our people. In understanding the problem of obesity and how to deal with the issues of education and health happen directly. Even in the atmosphere of extreme poverty, in the thick darkness of ignorance and pain, arise in a few light of light that even the power of anti-anti-torture cannot shut down, despite the end of a certain time. Eventually, they collect and unite the strength and then be a composite with a tight light that is seen everywhere. That in the University of obilisation as this can come out and eventually having a non-intolerance is due to the great pressure of the agents of change (Agency of change). There is no agent of a greater change than education, true education that aims to break the shacery of obesity, distraumsy and the light of the human mind. In this sense, investment in good education is investment in the fight against racism. We can be conflicting until When they go back home about that called better education (and better we are fighting instead of the leaders pretending to know on our behalf), but you are several things that cannot accept a long debate. For example, for those relating to the debate we have now, it is impossible to "better education" was the one that makes them get to believe that there are people going through a helicopter from Songea to Tanga. A person who went through the school to university and got this degree or one, and he still believes that we have Tanzanian people who are creating a helicopter ravuits, that he has gone to school, but education has given him along. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1568 Sumbawanga hospital
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_49805852 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Inspection of the buses to be done keenly. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Ikunda Erick "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 03 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The transport services of buses to different provinces in the country has increased due to the needs of that service. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, the needs are supposed to be done by having travel agencies that meet the criteria of road safety. Due to the presence of the buses that are making a long and short journey, it is required to be a thorough inspection of those organs of the regular fire, so as to be satisfied with the ability of those agencies especially buses to carry passengers and travel especially long distances. For several years now, we have witnessed the increase in road accidents that are caused by the laziness of drivers or poor condition of the fire equipment, a situation that cost the nation by losing their strength and also to stop the families having orphaned children and those with disabilities. Despite the road safety laws, some of the drivers have been broken deliberately. In addition, in ensuring that those buses are traveling are safe, the audit authorities, including the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA), is supposed to handle them in detail then they should be given the consent of making a journey. I believe that the inspection will enable the removal of buses that are going to a long way though they are capable of going to a short way, therefore, to avoid passengers and accidents or threats that can be found in the journal, for example the spoiling of vehicles every time and forcing them to go on the way. There are buses that have been allowed to travel for a long distance, for example from Arusha to Dar es Salaam which is a distance of 600 kilometers, yet his ability is to travel a few kilometers away. There are some of the buses that are traveling to various provinces while it seems clear that they don't have that ability, a situation that has caused us and caused some to ask ourselves if the authorities concerned with the inspection of quality and the ability of those buses are responsible as required. It does not mean that those buses do not have the ability to do any journey, certainly, they are attractive to the short journey, thus being required to be given permits for making those trips and not long as those of 600 kilometers or more. That is important, that's why I insist on a comprehensive inspection. Other buses outside have good colors but the ability to make the journey were allocated are not, due to them. It is clear that travelers using those buses get a lot of trouble especially when it comes to them, their lives to be at risk and their property is also in danger, because most of the damaged areas are not safe. It has been normal to see the passenger bus that is supposed to travel for two or three hours taking six hours, because of getting spoilt after a long distance. The situation reveals that other buses or not being treated well or should be approved and do a long walk to be endured. This is dangerous. I advise the buses that the passengers are making comprehensive inspection so that they are not required to make a long journey to be short. Let's go on to provide services to a distance that doesn't deserve is to endanger the lives of passengers for accidents that can be avoided. Traffic police are doing their work well, the passengers also have a good opportunity to inform the drivers who know their lives by driving badly and they also have the responsibility of giving information about the whole trend of the bus, including informing the concerned authorities about poor conditions of the buses that they use to travel if it will be damaged on their way. The aim is to convince the audit authorities to do well before they allow them to do a short or long journey. I would like to be understood that, the inspection of the ability and the keenness of the drivers only is not enough to be tickets for the safety of passengers on the journey, but even the quality of the buses itself should be assured. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98120072 Coach Portugal has said that striker Hugo almeida will start the first squad in today's semi-final match. It's not the Spanish defending champions at 4 o kasorobo You know the technicians has noted that he will launch a profit who is reigning with the Turkish national team despite being unable to repeal the group stages but fill the gap of the striker. The injured person He has said that the criterion of using the player to deal with the national security guards in the years is Ramos I come from because it is more intense and therefore the ball. That is Christiano Ronaldo playing in a very hard place. However, he believes that the game will be tough for both teams he has told the father we know many are still in the Liga There we did not use his diet to play with more attention to mark and make quick attacks to listen to it was an error of dangerous joints, something that is in the face of a Nice mru Gambo part of the mid-fielder. On his part, the busy farmers were or tribe. He said that their squad has to deal with the star players that they are doing well, the game will have great competition for both teams. Latin America, vegetables are growing rapidly and they are using well the opportunity in kyoto here we learn to control them and forget the nado in the best level In that game but I would have said even before today. Let's realize that They will be looking at looking at the activities they are screaming before the Portugal national team He controlling the genitals of the Spanish team not to make plans near
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58431813 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Employee is supposed to avoid dangerous environment at work, we have seen many times some of the workers implementing their responsibilities, in a difficult environment. Therefore, an employee is implementing its responsibilities in the environment that tells the procedures while others don't know that their environment affects their health. Together with that, many workers listen to a certain person, who was working in the factory or the company died there is no even one of the workers who took action against the cause of that death. Employee should be an employee or a task, it is his right to know about some of the chemicals that are in the industry, which are killed by causing various effects of cancer. Most workers circulate and die before their age, by thinking that the right is a sin and by thinking that the value of their personality is low because of poverty or because of lack of education. Some of the employers think they have the right to reduce the value of its workers, so that they can get a financial well. Several workers in the country have lost links or their lives, matched because of the haze of mining in mines. These effects are not only workers, but even the residents around the mines. There is a large number of employees who today are working in a difficult environment that is going on. Many people are exposed to their employers in an environment that has been surrounded by poison without caring, because they want to get great benefits. Today you pass through some industries and even some of the bloggers here in the country, you will discover people they are being toxic or explicit in believing that they have a small value or bigger than other human beings. This is known that people work in that kind of environment, simply because of wanting money and believing that they will live a hard life and their families leave. Some industries often find workers in the Environment to protect themselves AT risk, such as equipment to prevent dirty weather, special shoes, work clothing or cap when it is where the leader is visiting the factory. Leaving workers are told to be lazy and continue with work as it is their traditions. The employee who accepts this environment is that he has not recognized and do not know his rights. The workers remember that the environment is slower and often you are lying because you don't know your wives fall and die suddenly at work. But when they hear a certain person who was working at work he died, and did not even ask about the death of a fellow worker that was caused by what. The workers are suffering from knowing that chemical, dust and many others in industries are killed by giving them a slower disease. It is very important for the workers to know this issue that in this world where more people are continuing to give up and worry more, understand their rights. Most importantly, most of them are paid small salaries that don't meet their needs. Therefore, it will not receive even immediately, some employers are overseeing the safety of their employees at a high level, because by doing so, they should use additional costs so as to reduce profits. It is about the employee himself asking him about his safety in work. If there are signs of small security, it is good for the employee to try to look for the ways of suicide and finding other activities. There is difficulty in getting employment or changing activities, but if there are many workers think their children and others who depend on them will be affected. Citizens are waiting for the Workers Compensation Fund (WCF) which was started according to section 5 of the Workers Compensation Fund. 20 of the year 2008, dealing with compensation to employees in the public and private sector in Tanzania Mainland who will use, suffering or died from work. WCF started work officially on July 1, 2015. The main aim of the establishment of the Workers Compensation Fund is to address the issues of compensation to employees who are in the public and private sector in Tanzania Mainland, who will use, suffering or died at work. According to the second section of the Workers Compensation Fund for 20 percent of the year 2008, the perpetrators of the fund are employers of the public and private sector in the country. Christian Gaya is the founder of the HomPension Fund and pension adviser. (Gayagmc @ poo.com or 0655131341) "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_70959787 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Doctor. Possi added UNESCO the reduction of violence against Albino deputy minister (office of the prime minister), policy, parliament, labor, employment, youth and the disabled, Doctor. Abdallah Possi has commended the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in helping to provide education to citizens about albinism and to evaluate how the citizens are understanding about those people. The Doctor. Possi said that in a meeting to explain the assessment that has been done by UNESCO to the citizens of four districts that evaluation was done and said that it is a good thing that has helped to show the situation how it is and how the government can use so as to end acts of violence to people with albinism. "People with albinism have been suffering from a long period, they lack a chance to study, doing business and many things are facing, the people of the organizations is not the solution is the society itself, many people still do not have enough education about albinism," it has to reach people with albinism as well as other people and the government has been doing an effort to end those acts but we need the community to achieve its intention, "said Doctor. Possi. The head of the office and the representative of UNESCO in the country, Zulmira Rodrigues speaking briefly before welcoming the guest of honor the deputy minister in the office of the prime minister, policy, coordination, parliament, labor, employment and the disabled Honorable. Doctor Abdallah Possi giving a speech at the UNESCO meeting that looks at the evaluation of people with albinism that took place today at the Protea Courtyard Hotel in Dar es Salaam city. On the side of UNESCO through the head of the office and the representative of UNESCO in the country, Zulmira Rodrigues said that UNESCO said that every human being has the right to live as other human beings and through their research that was accompanied by providing education they believe that it is time for the community to partner so as to eradicate the brutal acts of the Albino Society. "UNESCO has decided to get involved in this issue and to try to provide education to the community, we have begun to work on this brutal issue to the albinos and the attacks that have been meeting because of witchcraft, which is contrary to the human rights," this research will be able to compensate them to end the brutal acts of people with albinism, every person has the responsibility to participate and finish this issue, "said Rodrigues. That assessment has taken place in four districts that are Misungwi and Sengerema to Mwanza, Msalala which is in Shinyanga and Bariadi in Simiyu Province. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_73845624 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Minister Jemage: The legendary electricity engineer who is being involved in a beer factory for efficiency "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When you get in Mbeya province, Iyunga School organized a factory of producing TBL beer and managed to enter the factory, you will feel at a different area due to the atmosphere they will meet from the factory buildings, the view of the employees whose most of them are youths, inside the industry and that are affecting them without forgetting the modern machinery of production that is in the factory. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The TBL factory in Mbeya branch that is under TBL Groupis is one of the best beer factories in Africa that is being led by Tanzanian scholars with the engineering profession in the industrial field of the industries. In an interview that took place recently, Engineer Jemage has explained that he loves his work and he feels happy to lead a big factory of TBL Mbeki which is among the best Tanzanian factories in Africa, that is one of the best Tanzanian artists who can have good work in the African continent and has a record to hold the first position for being a good industry, therefore, when you are a leader of a factory like this is supposed to ensure its standards in all sectors remain high, the work that I make in collaboration with the team of all my fellow workers to ensure we continue to put a record in Africa, the industry has been continuing to perform well and makes the visitors from different parts who have been visiting time to see success and learn. The secret of this factory to rescue a better factory, he said that when it was started, the equipment and modern machinery of production also started using good regulations of running factories at the modern way of SAB Miller company which is the one that owns the company of TBL Group. He said these regulations are professionally known as the manufacturing plant has directed the system of better production with standards and bring productivity, and touching on all of its operations in its industries and its results seem to start from the contribution of national income through taxes, to be the best employer, to help various community issues, to enable farmers who use the resources for making drinks, to comply with security regulations at work, to reduce the problem of employment in the country and other others. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_20311182 Majaliwa wants to sabotage U / national income to be addressed "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Evance Ng'ingo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 12 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa has called on the use of better use of the electronic systems in getting into the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam and wanting those who will sabotage the service to be addressed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Majaliwa gave the statement in his speech that was read on his behalf by the minister of information, culture, arts and sports, Nape Nnauye when he officially launched the system on behalf of the prime minister at the National Stadium yesterday. In his speech, Majaliwa said that the system will help to put open revenue from the entrance fee of the field due to its transparency in reducing revenue for the concerned day. He said that for being a person cutting the tickets already the deductions of the Tanzania Revenue Authority, the Tanzania Football Federation, TFF, the deductions of the club and every type of deductions of that day are known and therefore there is no doubt that the system is blocking the theft of entries. "This is a system that has brought the liberation of a high level in the whole issue of the entrance fee of the field who for a long time has been a big problem, people have been stealing revenue in the way they know them but for now this system is the savior of the Tanzanian soccer and the government in general," he said. He said that the system will help to note the reports of everyone who will go to the field that day. Moreover, in that launch, Nape was handed the cards to intervene in the field, President John Magufuli, Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan together with the prime minister and other big leaders that he has been requested to take action. Previously before welcoming Nape, the secretary general of that ministry, Professor Elisante ole Gabriel said that 20 machines that use the system were blocked in the field. He said that under the system, the user can increase money in his card that will be used to intervene in the field where for now the cards are given free. "Previously the company that involved this service of getting into the field here was to sell the cards to intervene in the field for 10,000 shillings but they are giving us a free card while the user will be required to have added money to get into the field," said Ole Gabriel. Project manager from Selcom company, Gallus Risteta said that those cards have been put on a modern security system that visited its use while adding in ensuring that it meets the need for the market, Selcom has 16,000 agents in the whole country who are involved in its services. On his part, the president of TFF, Jamal Malinzi urged the perpetrators to make sure that more education has been given to Tanzania to know the use of that stadium. He also said that the Premier League clubs depend on the income of the door to run their activities so that the current system must keep in mind the validity of deductions so that the clubs benefit. "I hope the existence of an open system and sure especially in doing the whole issue of inspection of revenue accounts in order to ensure that every side should benefit, because many clubs are running by depending on the income of the door to see that this system has made them their income," said Malinzi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1219 EXAMPLE _OFbranches of government
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_13161127 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The way the parents we live with its impact on the values of children in the life of parents involve words, actions, behavior and traditions of the parents that are used in running their daily lives in their families and the community that surround them in general. The relationship between parents, neighbors, relatives, relatives and friends and how it gets to visitors, etc. It all affects the growth of children's behavior in two different sectors; positive impact and negative consequences. We all know children significantly learn from their parents. What they see is doing a parent, they also work. A variety of psychology and growth of the child describes the mazon as a family leader (role model). He should be an example to be followed by the children, I respect especially when he is in front of the children by doing good deeds that are supposed to be followed by the children and the beautiful communities that surround them. To pick the words to speak ahead of her children especially when he is angry. Children are not born and abusive and saying, they get from the communities around them. Everyday life, small acts and words create a reflection on the children on life, language and relationships... "your words are your actions, your actions, your behavior, your behavior and traditions are your life," is the quote of a philosopher and father of India's nation, Mafate Gandhi. As a result of the words of this philosopher, then behavior, traditions and actions are the real picture of human life that is seen in front of the eyes of other people and this is based on the upbringing of his child. The brain of a human being has been forced to receive and keep in all the records that you received. Economic experts say the youngest child has a lot of potential to receive information, protecting and remembering what he saw at ease than even the whole person and this is because the child is thinking about the only time that is different from the whole person who thinks the behavior and traditions of parents in three times: The next year. This one in mind is used to help confusion of various challenges in life. Unlike it appears to be taken, the child's upbringing is not limited to giving an important needs like food, accommodation, housing, clothing, education and health, but it involves themselves to build the foundation of life that will ensure that for now and later, he has said or did not read the parent has a great opportunity to implement this important role in the child's upbringing. Birth is not work, work to raise. They killed early our hearts. A rare legacy gets a child from a parent is how to live with the world. Therefore, the parent has a great responsibility of implementing this. Let us start to live as parents because there is a wind to forget, continue to chatting with your friends and your friends as they use violent words in the ears of children including arguing in front of children, in this way it will destroy the whole future of the growth of their children. It will cost a lot of time to impose disciplinary action against the children who were raised in this environment. These children don't have answers to adults and usually have discipline problems while in school. Their relationship with teachers are not good and often do not get close support from the teachers and the end they are unable to continue well. In the opinion and advice to call the number 116, which is special for child services in the country. This service will not pose payments from all networks in the country. Also you can see us through our Facebook page: Speak Tanzania; Twitter: @ Semhar and @ sematabia.org "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17961220 Kilimanjaro Queens is a victory "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Grace Mkojera "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 20 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The national team of women in Tanzania Mainland of Kilimanjaro Queens, today is coming down in the pitch to look for victory in the final match against Kenya to contest for the World Cup, East and Central Africa (CECAFA) in question, Uganda. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kilimanjaro Queens played that step after winning in the semi-finals against Uganda 4-1, that was played the day before yesterday in question. Also, Kenya reached that step after scoring 3-2 goals by Zanzibar 11-0 goals. The chairman of the Tanzania Women's Football Federation, Amina Karuma said they have prepared themselves well their psychological and exercise exercise for the finals. He said that the youths are great and they are ready to deal with the hard team of Kenya, which has qualified for the group stages of African Nations finals for women. Karuma said together with Kenya taking place in Spain for the AFCON, but they will face it today and make sure they are providing them to be alive and took the crown. He said Kenya has also organized well and they are using the competition for the purpose of preparations for the AFCON tournament recently, therefore he hopes the game will be tough. Moreover, in his previous games, Kilimanjaro Queens won against Rwanda 3-2 goals and drew 1-0 against Ethiopia. That game is important for Kilimanjaro Queens to set history after being released in the qualifying competition of the African Cup of Africa. Kenya has been planned in one group with Ghana and Mali in the schedule that was given yesterday by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) thus it may take that game as a big measure to him. And the coach of Kilimanjaro Queens, Sebastian Nkoma said they are well and they are expecting to return home and crown. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58732590 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Fear of Zari 'daughter The Lady boss following the abdomen is growing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The news of the town for now is a big debate in the streets and on social media that, the current lover of the Mbongo-Fleva, Nasibu Abdul "Diamond Platnumz," Zero Hassan "Zari the boss Lady" can kill a child who is in the stomach because of his behavior of wearing shoes with high-scale shoes (High Hills) during this pregnancy period. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. What was despite the fans "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Some of the fans, especially the children of the town who are believed to have great love with Miss Tanzania 2006 who is also star of Bongo movie, Wema Sepetu (Team Wema), who once had a romantic relationship with Diamond, have arrested Zari saying that wearing her High Hills "bbles" can make her stomach during the walk to do the stomach. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Doctor speaks, AFL "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Following the heavy allegations, the day before yesterday, peace was speaking with the famous doctor in Dar es Salaam, Godfrey Chale, "Doctor Chale," who was forced to explain the allegations. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Peace: "Sorry, guarantee, we are forced to find out from the words that are circulating now here in town. Diamond has a pregnant lover. Now together with her pregnancy, he is wearing long boots. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "So they realise that he can kill a child that is in the stomach because she wore her shoes, muscle. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The legs rose and he blogs. What's the truth? " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Doctor: "First, not true. A woman wearing a high boots during pregnancy doesn't cause a child to die. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Though, it is advisable for pregnant women "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They should not be wearing long shoes because, when they wear, they raise muscles and increase weight. So it becomes like a person who carries a burden on the head while he was pregnant. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. ATAJA: Non-corruption "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Doctor Chale continued to put it clear that when a pregnant woman continues to wear long shoes, while he gave birth and the body could reduce, he will face four diseases. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "First he will suffer the legs. Secondly, he will be suffering from problems in the Philippines. Third will get problems of kneeling and forth he will suffer from the back. That is why you can find a woman becomes beautiful, good legs but if he was carrying a truck or wear long shoes during pregnancy, the legs can dream of meat in the past. "" "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. AONY HOW "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "So, if the community has a fear that the pregnant woman will kill the unborn child because of wearing long shoes, that fear was noted, but it should be noted that the four problems that I said," said the doctor. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For women "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But these effects are not only pregnant. Professional research is discovered that a woman has the ability to walk the average of 10,000 steps per day. So wearing shoes with high-scale shoes make the power used to walk one step further. Now you'll see the effects of walking 10,000 steps. This does not matter who uses the vehicle. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "This outcome causes muscle and neurozone, the back and neck to make a great task of trying to draw weight. The work that usually is done by the Philippines, "concluded the doctor. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Diamond said "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Peace, the day before yesterday searched for Diamond through his WhatsApp network and asked him what he wants to say the claims of "bad" of Zari: "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "They are just there. You know this world to see you were not popular everything will follow him. But I am looking forward, what I do and what can I do. If the words even in wrap are there. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_54888139 Tambwe has no guarantee Yanga "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Grace Mkojera "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 05 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yanga may have lost his striker, Amis Tambwe whose contract is heading to the day because until now there is no any talks that they did with him. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tambwe has been behind only five months in his current contract that is expected to end at the end of this season. Perhaps Yanga were left with no plan again and they want to leave the top scorer of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League last season and last year's season. While Yanga last season scored 21 goals when he was with Simba in his first season in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, scored 19 goals. As a result of soccer laws, a player is behind a six months contract, he can have talks with other teams or even signing a previous contract, if his team the club is playing will not increase the contract. Speaking to this newspaper yesterday, Tambwe said that for now he has not received any offer, but it happens after his contract with Yanga frame is ready. "I still have a contract with Yanga, I have not done any talks to be given up to now, I can't say I will go, I am waiting for you, I will make it clear," he said. The former Simba player said it is very early to decide whether he will leave the desert, believing he has a chance to continue serving the club. Recently, the Deputy Chairperson of Yanga, Clement Sanga said that they need that player because he has a good quality, and that they will do with talks to add a new contract. Tambwe has scored eight goals in the round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League this season, he finished second behind Shiza Kichuya leading with nine points. At the same time, the defender of Yanga, Vincent Bossou was expected to arrive yesterday and today to join his colleagues in the practice of that team ready for the second round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League that is expected to start on December 17. Bossou arriving at the number of players who reported at the training in Yanga to reach 24 since the new coach, George Lwandamina starting to train that team. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_76788015 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Jdetermination will go away from the embarrassment of NJUGUNA. A girl from here who has called a camp for his fiance's house, he made a tragedy when he claimed that he was pregnant so that the guy will help him. The claim made him a plea for him saying the pregnancy was not his. According to the reception, that lady is known for loving life in a luxury and he always wants men who have money to help him to cater for his needs, "said the reception. On his part, the alamus is working in one bank close to Thika and he was in the same way two years ago. "The only time his eyes fell to the guys, Kimmel decided to do it down in order to keep her romantic," she tells the pair. After being given for a long way and threw his ndrano, that lady succeeded since the guy was bait. The two started friendship and visited their residence. Their relationship was root and they agree. "The surprise is that when they started that relationship, the lady started his skill of begged the guy. After the time he had been flagged in the luxury house of the calendar, "she told a tweet. However, his desire to get married to the alamity was shambles when he claimed that the guy had to get pregnant. That day of Kisanga, alameni went back to work with the lady while preparing for dinner. After eating, he told him that he had good news he wanted to tell him. It is the same time when he told me he was pregnant. As soon as the screenshot, the guys were planted by anger. "Oh my pregnancy? You have been with pepper spray or what? If you think I am a fala to be fooled by a young girl like you, made it badly. I want to come back to me this time, "guys do. While the ura thought it was a joke, the alamus grew up in his belongings and then called a taxi attendant who came to take him to the lady. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_32563467 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The referees of the First Division League will also be followed by the editor there has been a lot of rounds for referees that refereed the premier league matches. The truth is that there is every reason to follow up even the lower level matches that there are things that are done and you can't lie. I think there's every reason to start following these referees. The First Division League is the one that gives the premier league teams, its results are going to play against the poor and going on while they are the referee for visitors, this problem of referees is not allowed in the premier league alone, even the league level. I believe TFF and the league managers will be keen on this I say and bring change in the games. Cletus William Much, Temeke, Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25716789 Who is carrying CCM Mbeya town next year? Oct 11, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the general elections of the year 2010, the Revolutionary Party (CCM) lost Mbeya town region in the same environment that caused the province to fall in the NCCR-Evolution Party, in the general elections of many parties in the year 1995. Polisya has emerged the winner in the 1995 election after defeating the CCM candidate, late Bruno Mpangala, while Joseph Mbilinyi emerge the winner in the 2010 General Election. In all the two elections are members of CCM who contributed to their party, being the result of groups resulting from the candidates, where members have been divided while each one is defending its candidate. Among the reasons mentioned to contribute to the anger of the candidates in that party is together with personal interests, many benefit from candidates, therefore the action of their candidate not to vote in opinion polls are usually only one reason, stop using the eating that they got from their candidate. However, there is another reason, it is a step by some of the leaders to have their people thus demanding the adoption of the excluded candidates by voters, a step that they get affordable when the "injuries" those political leaders are rated to the second side, the opposition. Different names are mentioned to vie for that constituency through that party in the year, some include the writer of Business Times, Charles Mwakipesile, who in recent years has been close to the politics of that party in Mbeya region. However, Mwakipesile refused to confirm that saying the time to announce yet and that right now he has focused on working with the party. "The time still, I am doing the work of the party," says Mwakipesile, when he was required to speak to him in the list of those who showed the intention of vying for that constituency which is currently one of the main strongholds of CHADEMA in the country. The member who was in charge of three positions in that party, including the member of the general meeting of CCM - the nation representing Mbeya province, a member of the executive council of CCM Mbeya Region and member of the political committee of that party, in this province. Others are the former chairman of CHADEMA in Mbeya Rural district and the parliamentary candidate twice in Mbeya Rural constituency, Sambwee Shitambala. In all the two elections he also participated, he was on the right of the current member of parliament of CCM, Pastor Lackson Mwanjali. The failure twice for Shitambala, while CHADEMA is believed to have the strength in that constituency against CCM and their candidate, they have caused the division within that party, with some of its leaders and members who accused him openly that he was bought so that he will be bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he However, Shitambala said he is not ready to put his intention openly saying the time is not appropriate to do so, saying; "I have never announced, I am MNEC, is a party leader, I supervise the ethics of the party." In addition to confirming, the member says the right time comes to people to know if he will pray for or not, but he cannot stop the citizens not mentioning his name and it is possible because of them (citizens) to believe that he can. Shitambala right now is a member of the executive council of CCM Mbeya Town, after joining from CHADEMA where he fled from CHADEMA, claiming he is tired of racist politics on the basis of the party's regions. Among the open discrimination that are outlined by that leader is together with the issue of special seats and how his former party has stopped the youths who are using to announce that party in Mbeya Rural district. Shitambala notes that he was tired of being affected by the way women in that province were done, and the behavior of hooliganism, violence and distrust. "The groom lives in a group that is like, I wasn't in the group," notes Shitambala being the first time to talk in detail that gave CHADEMA. He will not talk about the position of his party in the next general elections, especially in Mbeya town region they lost after he was defeated by CHADEMA in the previous elections. "Basically CCM is the ones that voted for CHADEMA candidate, I know that that took place, more than 75 percent of the votes came out of CCM," notes Shitambala. The description of Shitambala confirms the claims that the presence of leaders and party members of the party to participate in opposing their party being the anger of their candidate being defeated in the referendum. His explanation get more strength due to the fact that during that time he was the leader of CHADEMA and also their candidate for Mbeya Rural Constituency, it is clear he understands a lot and he knows many who participated in the party in the 2010 elections. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_27557835 Halo I hear I hear Halo ohh, all the noise was with me. Ohh also mi I'm in the ehorh work is just good. Okay I checked Jo Okay, we are sitting at home and yet it is still unknown. Twitter lt; hes tgt; and the money for what money is still paid, and onto the way we try to keep it back? If you are okay and it's raining fire and it's raining and then come back to mm ehit okay no other work I was looking for halo yeah, there's another day we look for you as it will continue. When I was going to have no mym halo and hear the ehhe then
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_92221972 Non-licensed players "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Rahel Pallangyo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 22 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Players who don't have licenses will not be allowed to play in the first league starting from the fifth round that starts today. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking to journalists yesterday, the information officer of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Alfred Lucas said the board of the Tanzania Football Federation has ordered the commissioners and supervisors of the stations to ensure that a player who does not have a license. "According to the article 14 (16)," all players will be identified by using their licenses that will be provided by approval by TFF. Any player who will not be licensed will not be allowed to play in the concerned game, "said Lucas. Lucas said that the federation issued an emergency period to use temporary licenses while the licenses of the season are prepared, therefore the licenses are ready but the leaders of the team are not going to collect TFF. According to the schedule of the First Division League, Group A today will be between Pamba of Mwanza and African Sports of Tanga at the CCM Kirumba Stadium, Mwanza while at the Karume Stadium, Dar es Salaam, there will be Kiluvya United which will play with solidarity. Monday in that group, Friends Rangers will play with Lipuli of Iringa at the Karume Stadium and Tuesday, Dar es Salaam will play against Ashanti United of Ilala, Karume Stadium, Dar es Salaam. Group B will be a game between Mbeya Warriors of Mbeya and Coastal Union of Tanga; Kemondo will play with Mlale and Police Moro will play with the Directorate of Iringa while tomorrow KMC of Kinondoni, Dar es Salaam will play with Njombe town. Group C all four games will be played today, Singida United will play with Dodoma Police at the Namfua Stadium in Singida; Rhino will fight with the Alliance of Mwanza at Ali Hassan Mwinyi Stadium Tabora while Mgambo JKT will be the host of Kigoma, at the Mkwakwani Tanga Stadium. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_36215383 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Today is a day of unrecognized diseases in the world "Rare Disease" every year the final month of the second month is celebrated "Rare Disease" worldwide. This year the commemorations are taking place today 29 February 2016. In Tanzania, Sharifa Mbarak who is a mother with two children who were affected by those affected diseases, is expected to speak to journalists and various stakeholders including the doctors of children, including DR. Mariam of Agakhan and Professor Kareem of Muhimbili, Monica Joseph together with a stakeholder from Philips Medical Systems. That event is expected to take place today from ten o'clock in the morning, at Serena Hotel in Dar es Salaam, therefore you are welcome to the campaign to encourage diseases that are not recognized. We request your participation in this important day to the children of Sharifa and all the children in the world who are suffering from these diseases. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88280089 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Trio AFA suddenly inside the bus, he was arrested "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moshi. The police officer with the rank of corporal, Wilson Mwakipesile of the road safety squad in Kilimanjaro Province has died suddenly in the bus that he had been arrested. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, it was not known immediately if the reporter died on the way to take the vehicle to the police station, he died shortly after arriving at the station or when he was taken to the hospital. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kilimanjaro Province police commander, Robert Boaz, said that the police died suddenly in work but refused to enter the details of the incident that happened on Friday between 5: 00 am and 6: 00 pm, after the agreed to arrest the bus that works between Kiborloni and in the middle of the city. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. One of the witnesses said, "after beating the Hiace (Toyota) when Kiborloni entered the car and sitting in front of the driver and ordered him to take the station. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "While they were on their way to the station suddenly the person agreed, he didn't speak and he became the driver... that situation went up until they arrived at the station and then the driver told them to tell his colleagues." The body of the police was transported the day before yesterday to Mbeya for a funeral. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_59855242 Here in the country have been urged to stop in Power leaving the moment it will be known that they have a problem of breast cancer and be forced to be exposed to Bongo from Dodoma has a full report The call was given in Dodoma by the coordinator of reproductive health and children in Dodoma Province, Mrs Joyce take them when he was launching the breast cancer testing camp is being run by Aga Khan in Tanzania. They have said vehicles and how do they say That So It's not things to do mym too In addition, Kerege who was representing the chief physician of Dodoma province took the hour to ask how to run those camps and also in the rural areas where women will be able to get the screening services. Previously when he was welcoming the guest of honor to launch the campaigns, the director of the shop from Jaffar ghaddafi clarified that the camp is different from the other that are run because it will also provide training to those involved to investigate so as to identify breast cancer the statements will be the reason. He got a better family Now today we are looking at all the power you will get the noise you won and later wait for the future. The camp will last for a period of two days where women have been encouraged to come out to go for health check because breast cancer is seen if it will raise it early from here in Dodoma.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_94537735 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Police in Dar es Salaam city has ordered all traders who are involved in the sale of traditional weapons to stop that habit immediately and instead look for a special place to do those businesses. Those are as a result of a habit that is built by small-scale traders to engage in the devastation of siries like machetes, knives, knives, and protect along the road especially in the cost of adding vehicles. Speaking to journalists today, the police commissioner of the special region of Dar es Salaam, Andrey Sirro has said that those businesses have been dangerous to the safety of people who use those roads, he also added that those businesses have been growing very much on Nyerere Road Tazara, Chang'ombe, together with prison. "I have banned the sale of those products because people who are concerned with the sale of those products have been not faithful and use that opportunity to prevent people who are in private cars and public vehicles and start stealing their various properties like mobile phones, hours, bags and laptop, also," moreover, Commissioner Sirro has said that those weapons are supposed to be sold in the shops with licenses and not otherwise where the people will be found doing that business will be taken against them. "January 12 in Tazara area have arrested the suspect Mgoli Sakalani (39), the patient and a resident of Banana doing so much," said also Commissioner Sirro has said that the traffic squad special region of Dar es Salaam for the arrest of road accidents in the period of January 5 to January 12, have succeeded in getting financial charges. 657,060,000 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58214495 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Scoins Mbeya City "Unyago" for two years "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rashid Mkwinda "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The two-year training college graduates in Mbeya district have been urged to use two years training they received by protecting the peace and stability of our country including not being involved in criminal groups. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "" Your training will help the community and use the methods that you get in order to bring your own development, "said the councilor of Songwe Ward Ayasi Njalambaha. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Njalambaha also urged the graduates to put God in their performance in the community in order to build the faith of the Almighty God and that forever everyone with faith is going to justice. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "When you ask God in your work in front of the community, when you ask God you will have faith, with faith that you will be fair, we go back to our areas we help to maintain peace and stability," said Njalambaha. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, Njalambaha urged those graduates to engage in discrimination that involve groups of political ideology or religious ideologies and that they are required to put patriotism and help the development of our country without discrimination. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On his part, the acting head of prisons of Songwe prison, Salehe Hassan Saleh, urged parents to cooperate with the youths joining the Scouts training because those training apart from building their ability and understanding that they give courage and courage. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. And the trainer of the training, Deodatus Mazengo said that the training involved 47 scars who had been trained for two years who have happened in the villages that are in Songwe County, Mbeya district. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98244981 Katavi with a report that says the leadership of the province of province, has finished the arrest of people who were involved in supporting the umi of burning a resident of the district with albinism speaking just after visiting the district hospital in Mpanda district where he has said that everyone is responsible to protect the disabled of the skin and wanting to bring out all those involved but in fact, but you know you know so we know according to it as to get the people that surround us. They have provided what you do to do with their courage to go down. Those things and the truth to stand cannot be stressed that he does not feel sorry. Mai Legal action is taking a step from also knowing that it will not make such actions against our colleagues in the use but our province of us hope that the province wasn't having anything else in this way, it's been the first that we really condemn that at the same time, who's uncle today and his mother have talked about how he was attacked by people. Work we have organized the stakeholders what we had. The theft Of msee and msee Read Zaid okay, you can see the sir to help us to prepare for the lives of them. Try your days Let us open the headquarters today I go back to fail for something The one is leaving us to come with us Furthermore, the leadership of the province of province has provided an amount of contribution to the disabled and requested other people to do so, the doctors of the hospital have said until now, let him continue well despite being a piece of support has not been found from itself even the youth to be bricks. Those who have been taken to these hours goes well and woke up there is a partnership One I'll see it Why? And all things got to read you have written. Soccer stakeholders so there's no thing that has been destroyed and even blood, we are grateful that there are people who sacrificed if there is a volunteer because if it is to come up with a man here to contribute to the blood of Chidi si katavi
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_23789039 It is our But most of the teachers in the call have lost Instead, they are looking for that teaching is work Because someone has graduated from grade four. He has not reached the level of success of going to join form five and six studies, he is deciding that because I have followed up in form five and six months I can go to the teaching college to learn so I can get the job because he becomes a call for that mi nasoma but I would like to write in this teaching call. And then This call for teachers Four Being misled by some of the people that teaching is a hard work, therefore it has maintained some of the people who are not involved in it. Twitter so that it has been their great job but the people who actually fall within their hearts as mi I need to go to be a very few teachers. I am asking only to say that teaching work is a call like other calls but only. People are changing yesterday that teaching is a job like any other job, even trying to make sure that they can get his own interests and instead it is not that she needs to teach the children not to do with the group of people who do not know how to read about this issue in preparation for the students who started working in the past eight years, you find a lot of books but it's really difficult to prepare for students who were registered to do a national exams again, I think that's why they are given a lot of work so that it is very difficult to prepare the students that were registered to do a national exams again, I think that's why they are being given. And we know what should be done for breakfast that the level of education is not enough. What I see the government needs Whether it should place it as give permission to a few people, So every writer is required to start his book as a book of textbooks is used to be introduced to the whole country. And it's not that every school has its own book which can use because we look at the exam, it is the whole nation they are doing one exam and you are not even though you are coming from a book so that some of the students who are due to the changing of those books, I have used another book of maybe Oct reports the exams are supported in the company Limited so that the government is required to look at all journalists who are involved in organizing a book of textbooks not to be used by something that is something that is not the whole then to be understood. I see it here for the government to create a environment that is a friend For A environment that is a friend to teachers and student For the purpose to be able to overcome this problem is good for the government as it is looking at The problem is there. The environment for example, I consider there are many primary schools in there, you find maybe the day has launched and the wind That, as the class remains open for a long time, the government has not been renovated when the students and when it comes to seven hours, it needs that in the period and fail to stay in the classroom, a student needs to go home. In order to be a mystery now in Tabora, what should be done? First thing The government Do not have a good plan about the education sector First thing Like there? Minister that is heard of power I must look at first in the past followed, I don't know how to change it for example now there is a procedure This afternoon up to seven hours their partners with hiding It does not bother him The student skills because what will happen if the calculations Now in the AHH we don't have the way it seems to be doing So the answer should be found not now they are told to be hiding in the answer the money is given, is a student who is credited when he gets to learn what and you have heard about the scholars who are alleged to be teachers here in the country and be able to pass it down here. This is now an opportunity for my analysis to you, you know what will happen to raise the level. For me I see her.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_76160473 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Vingunguti councilor, he will land the health problems by buying beds, expanding the laboratory of the clinic which is passed a year since the deputy mayor of Ilala Municipality who is also the councilor of Vingunguti Ward, Omary Mtamoto has implemented half and a quarter of his promises in his ward on the side of his council position. When he was going to end one year since he came to power, he has said he has been using his personal efforts without waiting for subsidies from the government to implement his promises. Witness noted that in his office in Dar es Salaam city when he was speaking to the journalist, where he has said that as a councilor he saw it is good to use his efforts in collaboration with stakeholders from his ward to implement his role as waiting for subsidies would be delayed. He has explained that the success of the success of the health sector that he enabled in his ward to be, to reduce the cry of women by taking birth beds in the Vingunguti clinic. So as to avoid the dark problem in that clinic, he has taken one generator, four, and one television for the purpose of getting different information. Witness also said that he has made the purchase of two cars for carrying out the disease which led to a long-term problem and led to some of the victims. In ensuring the cleaning issue in the parents' ward has developed a local toilet in the ward together with one washing machine washing machine. He has also said that in this year, he has taken a machine for measuring pressure, diabetes together with a test of testing the tons of tons (flu), the start of the disease they are overwhelmed or died. Moreover, he has said that he has successful the expansion of the laboratory of that clinic. "On the side of the health sector that is good and the great I have done and as I had promised to my citizens that I will solve all the problems of the health side," said embrace. However, he says on the side of education apart from the donations from the government, he made it great, it is to take one machine to stop documents (produced) in the Vingunguti secondary school including paying 500,000 electricity debt which led to the school to lack electricity in the whole year. Without forgetting his promises to the youth, the councilor has implemented one of his promises by giving them 14 sets in groups of football teams and the morning training groups (joging clubs) in his ward. In the implementation of the community activities, councilor councilor has said, he has succeeded to revive two public toilets that are outside the slaughterhouses and relini. "These are half and a quarter of things that I had promised private to fulfill, this year I have done that, I believe that next years I will do more than this in the cooperation of my citizens," he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_34675475 Ohh is the same day to crush Mym was going to walk Ati, I had to go to AHH, I remember my condolences to AHH, what I left me, then let me tell me then it's every time I will bring you good health So it is. AHH I don't know that Dry AHH naimagine did not defend something okay with a po that has given me the truth. Mym okay why you are lying on it as you are lying. No you don't lie the ball I've seen here the ball of playing futa ehhe sa is not mym Ati you see what you are playing in the snow said that we will make the club if he didn't play with it. And sa isn't the club halo
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_32484948 I voted for me and I'm too tired and tired. Apparently, why is it easier for all, the mother has not done mistakes Mym I don't tell you about what happened, except Nairobi is still having a mym then yesterday there are we going to all show mm so that we can't worry about you. Ehr Mym, let's stop torn mm But without now tomorrow this week, it is good and this is so cool and this is an adult for the work I look for mi I have been able to call me one week I am also preparing the highway for interview. Mym mym ehr
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45328153 Ehhe mym ehhe I have a lot of issues based on the same needs because there is a Matter he opened up with this and he told me Now he opened up with the Organization especially three hundred I think. And we are no buyers this time there are customers where there is no even at us at a high price, well, well you don't know the price at the top of you, the same time you don't know the mym mym mym and they climbed a long time or put on the babe. Mym If you are not seeing that there is a must that there are vehicles that we cannot count on this time there are no tomatoes in ten o'clock at ten o'clock there are no vehicles that were at the same time. Yeah. Let me think it was completely lost since the time of December at the same time even the maize you know that all of the people climbed to their maize at home. AHH is not the same if the tomatoes can't get to the tomatoes cannot be the people they climbed according to these things to come. Ehr
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_74856615 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Users know about Britain's withdrawal of foreign ministers from the founders of the EU, France, Germany, Belgium, Italy and Holland in a Joint session yesterday in Berlin to discuss the legacy of the union after Britain withdrew. Picture: AFP This is the first time for a country member to withdraw from the union since the establishment of London, England. As the European nations continues to reflect on the decision of Britain to vote to withdraw from the union, there has been a few concerns that are controversial. The main concerns that are being discussed is about what is called critical questions which have begun to be buried in order to determine what could happen in the relationship between England and 27 countries that have been caught in that union. Now the European Union is in shock and it comes to an area that hasn't done. There is no member who has ever returned since the establishment of that union and section 50 of the European contract provides a few details. The following are some of the details about the ongoing incident in the world. What is the meaning of "Brexit" is short of words that mean the possibility of England to withdraw from within 28 countries that are members of the European Union (EU). This is the first time for England to run the referendum. The word 'Brexit' was used as part of following an example of the word "Greater" that was used when Greece was close to the Euro. A question from the Voters were asked, "it is important that Britain continues to remain a member of the European Union or out of the union? The question was proposed by the British Electoral Commission and agreed with the Government and the country's Parliament. Why has happened now: The move was done to complete the requirements of the Confedative Party as promised by the British Prime Minister David Cameron who promised to make a referendum if he would be elected again in the 2015 general elections. Generally the members of Confedative who are now divided over the membership of the EU for approximately 40 years. The low-ranking system in general wish to leave the EU while others who alia wish to stay in the community. The importance of the people who suggest Britain's withdrawal believe will support Britain's independence from the regime that is blocking the success of the creation of employment and allowing the country to choose its laws and business friends. Pro-British membership activists in a community like any other country will help improve the influence of the world in the issues of army and economic security. Voters deserve a British citizen of over 18 years is the ones that voted. This includes citizens in England and in other nations of the Commonwealth. It will take time to leave the EU law number 50 explains that any country member can withdraw but with several conditions. One of those conditions is that any process of suicide is completed within two years since the first day of starting that process. In that period England will continue to be accepted by the contract with the EU laws, but it will not participate in any decision. The things that will be considered before the departure will start talking about the sections of his departure. Major issues including things like financial regulations which will still be in the city of London, tax for business and the rights of civilian groups in the European Union. What are the effects that are seen in Britain's withdrawal? Some believe his withdrawal will encourage other nations to follow the referendum on their areas. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_47688575 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The renovation of Bukhungu, under the chairman of Western Stima club, Laban Jobita, has urged the government of the county of Kakamega, to pass the activities of the Bukhungu Stadium to be ready before the new season to start next month. Due to the bad state of that stadium, Stima which has been using that stadium for the home matches he was forced to relocate its matches until Mumias Sports Complex or Kisumu Municipal Stadium. Jobs said many youths who come close to Bukhungu's stadium have no place to play for their league matches due to poor conditions of the stadium. "They were given a contract to renovation this stadium, they have not done anything. The residents of this area are supposed to be happy to see their youth playing in soccer here. "It is an annoying thing to see the residents who are losing to the stop, while this town missed to benefit economically," said Jobita whose club finished the league in the 11th position. At the same time, the Azam soccer club has confirmed to register Paul Odhiambo from Western Stima and David Mwangi of Mathare United. The coach of the Premier League club, Ken Kenyatta said yesterday that those players have agreed to have his team for two years. "I would like to prove here that the two players have joined my squad. I have heard that they will add my team for the purpose of the new season of 2015, "he said. Most of the players who joined tax for FC is Samuel Odhiambo (Tusker FC), Charles Okwemba (AFC Leopards), Lawrence Kasdiscomfort, Nelson Marasend (Nairobi City Stars), Moses Arita (former Thika United defender) and Nelson Simone from West Kenya FC. By John Lukuwi "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_79966834 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The IGP insists on discipline to the police "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Francophone Emmanuel "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 12 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The head of the police force in the country (IGP), Ernest Mangu has urged all police officers to ensure they are maintaining discipline, love, unity and peace in the country so as to protect citizens and their properties. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. IGP Mangu said that after the exercise that was done between the police commissioner and the police of that region. And the police commander of the special region of Dar es Salaam, Simon Sirro has said that the exercise is to empower the police and reminding them their responsibilities when they are not in work. "" IGP saw the importance of this exercise where he decided to participate in us and urged all police officers to ensure that they are maintaining discipline all the time they are not in work, "said Sirro. He insisted that those exercises will be sustainable so as to protect their health since the exercise for those soldiers is something that should be done every day in their lives. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_34757995 Ohh haiya there have been able to make such a house. It is a long time. It is not that that is now required that people want to be ahead and you know what we were told is when I met or called it's influence or called it. And this has been caused by this new president too. AHH really wants to score that. Now four Now let me think about six that I don't know how will they come to a white person in Swahili Ok, don't worry
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_51886351 Now I don't know that I have not told you that it's money got lost and understand that it is a lot of money that I will see if I will be found and I will be able to read you and then connect to you. Mym mym This is our vote for us is Bana AHH but after eating food because the vote is beaten is sing on the chat. Mym Ehr I have only dates to them, will he take a take to all of us not only let's go to their home, he will go to their home. Mym is not like I've seen a salamie but we're just like you can see Mym we'll see that
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88541381 Marketing people in soccer "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Rahel Pallangyo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 03 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Football Forum has said that the issue of markets in football is important and that is supposed to be keen because soccer has become a big business in the world that can make a lot of money. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking at the Football Forum taking place at the National Stadium, the chairman of the forum Henry Tandau said if Tanzania needs to move forward in the soccer sector then it is a must to get people with experience in the marketing department. "All over the world soccer is business, so as to get the benefits it is a must for the markets to make good work by looking for markets," said Tandau. Tandau gave an example to billionaire Roman Abrams when he bought Chelsea he took Peter Kenyon at the marketing department, an issue that has caused until today the team did well in business. "Sheikh Mansour took Bruno Soriano from Barcelona and if you look at the moment they are doing well and they can register any player in the world," said Tandau. The forum that will be finalized today is discussing various issues concerning the development of soccer in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45268425 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yanga, Simba points important today "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 07 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Tanzania Mainland Premier League is continuing today with the grass of the three stadiums burning while soccer stars Simba and Yanga being defeated in the pitch to search for three important points. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The game of Yanga and Ndanda will be played at the Nangwanda Sijaona stadium is expected to have fierce opposition from every team wanting to keep its record where Yanga will go to the field with only one goal to look for three points that will give them the benefits of defending their championship when Ndanda will care for the honor of reaching out on his home ground. Ndanda has risen up in the season of the year 2014 / 2015, and will remain in playing for the third time in the league this season while the record showing that they have already got a draw without scoring twice with Yanga, to be surrounded by Yanga 1-0 goals. Yanga that was being faced with the Confederation Cup competition, is coming down in the pitch to play the second match after the match against African Lyon won 3-0 in the eighth position in the premier league standings and its three points. Ndanda has already played two matches in the league standings having lost all the away matches. On the side of Yanga, his players who were reported on the claims that they moved to the level today will play their former team at Ndanda. Those players are Kiggi Makasi, Jackson Chove and Salum Telela. In addition, in today's match, Yanga will miss six stars from different reasons, those are Deogratius Munishi, Geofrey Mwashiuya, GDP Ngonyani, Haruna Niyonzima and Vincent Bosou. Another match today will be between Simba welcoming Ruvu Shooting at the Uhuru Stadium popularly known as "Farm of Mrs." being the first game being played at the stadium after being closed for more than one year when they were renovated. Simba has organized itself to guide the officers of Ruvu Shooting, after being forced to a goalless draw with the officers of JKT Ruvu in his second match. The assistant coach of those Hundreds, Jackson Mayanja told HabariToday that they have done amendments to some of the weaknesses that came out in the match they passed so as to ensure they are doing well in their coming matches. "We are organized well in our game against Ruvu, we have worked with the weaknesses that came out in our matches so as to ensure we leave with all the three points," said Mayanja. And Azam will be the guest of Prisons at Sokoine Stadium, Mbeya. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_20127891 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. E speed of Magufuli and their directors is the beginning of the regime? Or is the required speed in this nation? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mwalimu Nyerere once a time said that if I wanted to be a dictator, I would be able to go. Now Tanzanians have blindness and we don't see them. I have said in my post that there is a day Tanzanians will remember President Kikwete. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Why should I say that, let's go together and if you want me, and if you have mentioned Violves stay away from this post, only great thinkers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 1. Threats and HOW to accept or proceed to Magufuli now is feared and he is afraid of the citizens, especially workers and business people. To Adolph Hitler won the elections and did not coup the government also got public sympathy even when he did. See now this post there are people who criticize him regardless of his relevance. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 2. The violation of the human rights right now, you can put the police without being sentenced in the day. The anny of Paul Makonda of treasurer is being detained without taking him to court is a violation of human rights. Now recently, the district commissioner is deciding only in comparing it without looking for human rights. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 3... to the rule of law. There is a violation of the law to be clear while citizens are investigating. Honorable Magufuli personally claimed that he will break a house that prevents water pipeline even km, the case is in court and then people are doing this no, there is a law of Law what does it mean?. There is also the head of the district where he is praising the doctor without following the Sheriareview process through the employer which is the director. OK just laugh and enjoy but it will b u one Day "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 4.UBARC and nanny. The leaders of the leaders are now occupied by the canny which is the reputation of the earthquake. We didn't require leaders. We want the system that is open from the street to wilayan km is not a nation. A person goes on to delete a servant's holiday which is his right km So nanny and comparing it else they CAN SAY. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Consequently. I request to look at the system of leadership and the administration of the country, than Magufuli to fire people every day, the problem is not the people is a prisoner. I have proposed a new constitution to be voted for it to start working so as to stop how it comes with threats. Magufuli is not given a Check and balance and the main committee believe that he will be a dictator. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_37425071 AHH we are heading to end it yes, htt; hes tgt; many times has been actively fighting against the youth Yes, they are going to vote and this is ten and five elections. What is their call to the youth Now you must start registering you to vote. Because they're sitting next to home This weekend mi I sleep But he was not elected leader. The year is not to sue that, you find the youths they have no great inspiration. We as a district commissioner as a fellow boy there is something to tell you That is even grateful for the desire to compete with your queries. I thank you first thirty have been part of the very important part of educating the community but well that it helps the citizens to know several of the several things that their nation is doing and in fact I have been the right link between the citizens and their government as it has made. And and and in the same thing you say. I will end but I would tell you just in Kinondoni. Via you They know this now Always with the new judge In the district council of districts All those who have decided to evacuate because of the complaints by citizens Peace and one hundred cases And the ability that had to solve the case for forty cases So we find that we have a total of five hundred cases. And the size of my area of four hundred square kilometers for each one And one million people and six hundred thousand. For mi I have a lot of people than the province of Arusha who have one hundred thousand people and seven hundred thousand people. At the time, we entered the solution. Ruvuma we are getting one hundred and eight hundred people but they didn't above two hundred thousand people. So my meaning saying that Kinondoni has had many land conflicts because of the numbers of people And in fact and good he told me it's because he will decide to look for a parliamentary seat that we are going to vote for them and they would like to have a home Whenever I was in their states We have been told we can be good guys They do that but the second to the citizens of knowledge through your period of anger over them We have also added. The days to serve the citizens there is no court work until Saturday in Kinondoni. The goal is to ensure those cases have not been heard since the morning and five are heard. Let alone leave you just to go under entertainment, he writes that they are dying but also know that the head of Kinondoni District have employed six lawyers. Who have agreed to have enough money to pay but I have to have them on my salary Their main job is to give education to the public about the understanding of legal matters not to be unable to get to the steps before they go to court so that they go to court they have justice. Therefore, it is good for the citizens of Kinondoni district and Tanzanians know for their benefit but we have also suffered the hope of the second system going to Mwananyamala when they got it yesterday got there when Mwananyamala go to Palestine Sinza they are getting there when we are Going to find a lot of taxes and then the construction of the road are so bad and so I will ensure that our roads will be bad and those involved in the hospital is losing his life on the way because of the road to be bad for many human beings and we are in Kinondoni. Which but only one hundred and eight hundred stem cells remains twenty teams, I can send ninety and eight teams that are planted in the hour and I am also a football team of ten teams and two hundred and that we want to get the winners and let them sell good players from Kinondoni, not only the player is buying from other countries no, I want you to tell us to sell good players from Kinondoni, not only the player is buying from other countries, but all of them have to make sure you want to be clean and to make sure Tanzanians cannot feel that true Kinondoni has been well even in your comment but all that has to be complete, it needs religious leaders. It was not done well, it needs councilors. In the past, I need to have a hard working member of parliament really, so that all to be complete, I need to be easy to know the importance of development and justice for every Tanzanian without checking his income from his religion and its ability to choose in his environment and that the leaders cannot get them as the same youth who I mentioned today they have taken them if they haven't taken a step to register. Ehhe is giving you a chance to thank you for all of us being led to me at night and day but also without forgetting the mother of this family that is called Maria, here is a big job. One of the speculation if you can see the night and afternoon are suffering from people but the second to kill me and know her hope that I am going to the nations and our nation and give him the honor of that it is one day even if you do not get in the world you will say the mother in the way it comes to it. It's best to follow my home He's not telling me early I would have never been back. This Day Mi is grateful for all the initial steps like any way that makes it easier for repatriating youth In different sectors in different sectors, I believe that all of those got successful then things will be good to make this true lover.
query2985 favor boon
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_10973792 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Entrepreneurs in Dar es Salaam, the beneficiaries and training about new opportunities in agriculture and entrepreneurs from different areas of Dar es Salaam city have succeeded to get a chance of training about new opportunities available in business farming in a workshop that was organized by the Institute of Economic and Social Research (ESRF). Education that entrepreneurs got in that workshop is an education of the farm and entrepreneurship, agricultural education, agriculture and vegetables, agricultural education and rearing fish in tanks, education, rearing fish in ponds, farming education in stalls, to look at the opportunities that are in good poultry farming and to get education about Azerbaijan that can be used as food for livestock and also as fertilizer. Speaking at that workshop, one of the presenters, Dominic Haule said agriculture has a lot of opportunities but many people are unable to succeed due to the presence of various issues that hinder them. He said those challenges include lack of agricultural education and failure to get accurate technological information about farming in the country. Previously when giving the opening word, the executive director of the Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRF), Doctor. Tausi Kida said Tanzania has good areas of doing agriculture and it is needed is farmers to recognize the ways of doing better farming so as they start farming, they can get good results for the type of farming which they get. Kida. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query4286 braid hair
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_18148099 The leader of BOHORA arrived in the country "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 28 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The leader of the BOHORA in the world, Doctor Seyyidand Mohamed Burahanuddin has arrived in the country for the purpose of leading the festival to celebrate the new Muslim year for the believers of those denominations. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That leader arrived at the Julius Nyerere International Airport and split with hundreds of believers of those denominations who live in the country and various government leaders and the executive council of Muslims in Tanzania (Bakwata). In that reception there was also the Minister of Defense and Armed Forces, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi, the Sheikh of Dar es Salaam Province, Alhad Mussa Salum and the secretary general of Bakwata, Suleiman Lolila. After the reception, the convoy of that leader went directly to the BOHORA mosque where the visitor joined various believers for the reception ceremony of the celebrations. Speaking at that event, Doctor Mwinyi who represented the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, said the government values the contribution of the people of BOHORA in Tanzania in the way they invest and they are running their activities in peace and calmness and promised that the government will continue to cooperate with them. And the representative of Bakwata, Sheikh Lolila, said President John Magufuli is expected to participate in the opening of the festival which will be held soon in the BOHORA mosque. "BAKWATA is together with you and I promise all the 10 days you will make this festival we will be able to go hand in hand to ensure all your activities that they are planning are taking place in great success," he said. The leader of BOHORA Tanzania, Wuddin Adamjee, said the believers of the BOHORA in the world will celebrate Moharam who is the new Muslim year from October. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_16244145 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Saba Saba show, Jul 09, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For nearly two weeks hundreds of hundreds of residents of Dar es Salaam and others from the provinces and even outside Tanzania, were pouring in at the International Trade Exhibition of Dar es Salaam, popularly known as Saba Saba exhibition. They witnessed the show 20 years old, and more, ago, they will agree that it is up in every way: The number of countries participants; organizations and companies; quality of products and prices; public service and public service that is flooded since the first day to the end of the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Grounds. In any level, the big step has been taken by that when it reached the 38th exhibition of Saba Saba this year 2014. It is because of the great progress of the reached, we must give congratulations to the organizers of the Saba Saba exhibition this year for a good work that took place, for preparations and sure of the participation of business people, the country, companies and various organizations. The speed must continue. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We heard, last week, the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, proposes the need to expand more in the Saba Saba exhibition so as to destroy the country and the contractors more than it is now. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He suggested that remaining even at the exhibition grounds to be built on a sense of expanding the area and make it modern so as to fix the country, public and private companies, organizations and many more people. Of course the time has come for thinking about this point of Prime Minister Pinda. Because all of it is good, that is good, us should go to support the Prime Minister Pinda for his proposal. Together with the growth of the Saba Saba exhibition, there are still things that are not okay. There are many areas that certainly don't have a comfort to desire every time to Sabasaba. And that is the most beautiful country, companies and organizations and individuals. This point of Pinda, of course, has a lot. And because the organizers of this exhibition in Dar es Salaam have been getting the opportunity to go to attend an exhibition of our foreign colleagues, they can start in that experience of quality of our colleagues in implementing those instructions by the Prime Minister Pinda. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1040 slavery donkey animal
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84652468 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The armed forces destroyed 100 rebels in the city of Bujumbura, Burundi nearly 100 rebels were killed after violent clashes in the central region of Central Africa and Burundi near the border of the Democratic Republic of Congo, according to the military. The officer of the military level in Burundi who did not want his name, he said that the attack was carried out by the rebels who did not be identified after five days of success in the northern town of Bujumbura. "After five days of defeat, the rebels who were armed were swept away by soldiers after invading Burundi. In general, we have killed 105 rebels and arrested four of the 121 rebels who took to Cologne region from Congo, "the army officer said. "In those attacks we received the President of Burundi, Nkurunziza, with 60 guns, five rocket and more than 100 bullets," he said and added that Burundi army has lost two soldiers. More information did not be released about the attacks while the army broke the news about the rebels on the basis that the military operation is still ongoing. The officials of the government of Burundi and witnesses said Pierre And / AFP that the rebel group who will not be attacked in Burundi last night from Kivu Masparticipated in the Congo, the area known as the stronghold of rebel groups. On Wednesday, the number of those killed was 35, including 34 rebels and a soldier of the National Liberation Forces (FNL) thought to be involved in an initial attack on the border of Burundi. The FNL rebels, who are popular in developing attacks while chanting religious songs, signed a peace agreement with the government of Burundi in 2009 and since they discussed their group as a political party. The rebels who are still developing attacks on claims that their demands were ignored, claimed to kill six soldiers in October last year. After that attack, the rebels vowed to continue the attacks until the time of the general election of June 2015. The group has also denied that it was involved in the recent attack and stepping OUT of the murder of soldiers in Burundi. Burundi, "followed" from political violence in 2006 after the civil war on 13. In July 2014, Amnesty International said the ruling party in Burundi has been running the movement of intimidation against those who seem to go against the government. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1419 small group party politics
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_93086855 The richest people of the environment, the poor are affected by APR 23, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I have not been in the diaspora at the end of February I was expected to be the best way it will disappear and the drought will go. The situation was very different. The snow storm has continued until April. The residents of here failed to understand how it is. Experts said such a situation has never happened in the past 20 years. And in my home and followed up on the news of Tanzania, I see rain and floods have ruled the whole country. In March it is not normal to see flooding like this until palpable homes and people lost their lives. This is the climate change that hit the whole world due to pollution. In order to understand that these changes are good to look at his detail, his source, the future of his actions and actions taken. We should not allow you to think about our roads in Dar es Salaam to flood or our houses collapsed. Talk about the whole world to flood or burn. The primary thing is to understand that this is the destruction of a human being. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Doctor. Peter Werner, a weather expert in the Potsdam of the National Weather Service, says: "We are investigating the global weather, such as the amount of rain that is not normal, floods, drought, storm, and see its change, we can say in fact that unusual conditions have increased four times in the past 50 years." He says that these changes have been caused by an increase in certain gas in the air like the river, carbon emission, I will have attained the Saidi and exhaane. But he has destroyed the original system. It is because for a long time industries and vehicles have been devastated by billions of tons of gas that cause temperatures. Scientists are worried that the increase in the gas has blocked additional temperatures from the world. Therefore, those gas is a luxury, in the air of the world like a glass of front of the vehicle as it comes inside the vehicle. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The International panel of Climate Change (IPCC) that is sponsored by the United Nations has released a 2,500 pages report that passed the international meeting at the end of March this year in Yokrelocate, Japan. The report was written by 66 experts and was signed by 271 representatives from 115 countries, it says: "There is a new confirmation and more powerful that shows that in the past 50 years has increased due to human rights." The report warned: "If these changes will continue then there is no country that will do So." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Many researchers believe that this summer increase is causing serious climate change in the world. They believe that there has been a huge increase in rain in the north of the world, as well as drought in Asia and Africa. We have seen how El Niameo has happened in the Pacific and spread elsewhere. The IPCC report issued a stern warning explaining how climate change has been causing the weather to change so much to endanger the water sources and access to food. The chairperson of IPCC, Dak Rajoelina Pochuri said it is good if the world will look at this report, because if it will be ignored then its results are risking the community and the entire human system. The rest of the world's poor people - in the country "rich" and the country "poor." Since the fact is that the number of poor people grow even in a rich country. "We pretend that we live in a rich country we are safe and that those who will be affected are the people of the poor country," said Puzuri and added, "you need to look at the storm of Sandy (New York) as a small example." At the IPCC, one participant is activist Mrs. Christian Teriete urged a rich country to lead in preventing climate change. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41614388 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Simba WAJUTA dismiss Kibadeni... It's best for a hundred times more than a white man "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Dar es Salaam. The head coach of Simba, Zdavko Logarusic "Lays" has attained 10 matches of the Mainland Premier League, having collected 12 points but has been overwhelmed by Abdalah Kibadeni, who was in charge of that team in the first round as he collected 20 points in that number of matches. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Simba under Lays have already lost an opportunity to vie for three top positions after being scored last Sunday with Azam 2-1 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, thus remained the fourth position with 36 points. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Azam is leading the league with 53 points, followed by Yanga (46) and Mbeya City has seized the third position with 45 points when they left Simba in a difference of nine points while in three games. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Lay was given the responsibility of training Simba in December last year after the club's leadership sack Kibadeni and his assistant Jamhuri Kihwelo on claims of dissatisfaction with the results of their team. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. At that time Simba was holding the fourth position with 24 points. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kibadeni said that in that club for a period of six months and lead to winning five matches, leaving five draws in 10 games before being scored by Azam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The man who started his task at a landslide by leading Simba to win 3-1 goals against Yanga in a friendly match of 'Nani Mtani Jembe, "he was unable to transfer those achievements in the league. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Since January 26, this year, Lay led Simba to win three matches, coming from three draws and scored four matches against Mgambo Shooting (1-0), Coastal Union SC (1-0), JKT Ruvu (2-3) and Azam FC 2-1. Logically, he said: "I am surprised that we play ourselves but we have been supported, I think it's not careful, we are playing for thinking unless we are not," complained that the former coach of Gor Mahia of Kenya. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. And the captain of Simba, Nassor Masoud "Cholo" said the bad results that they got in this period is a lesson to them and now they should prepare for the next season. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Cholo said: "We got that, it reminds us that, in the world there is a rise and drop, we have already explained that it does not agree with these results." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1871 Chinese culture
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_19635451 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The southern provinces has all the qualifications to be a special region in the southern region of Tanzania includes the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara which for many years was behind development due to bad infrastructure especially roads. In the 1990s and back behind it was not an incredible thing to use more than two weeks for road transport for a journey from Dar es Salaam to Lindi or Mtwara, while at the moment it is six to seven hours. That situation was caused by poor conditions of the road and the absence of a bridge and a reliable ferry in Rufiji district. The speed of development in that provinces was very small to the extent that for the civil servants who were relocated to the provinces they saw as if they are being given punishment by their employers. In recent years, especially from the year 2000, the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara, has been a great attraction for the purpose of living with investments in the agricultural sector, industries and business. Those from different provinces in the country have been moving quickly in this regions and involved in agriculture, rearing and business. For this period the government intends to sincerely build the economy of industries, it is good to look at how it can use the opportunities available in this area. Southern provinces have both features and opportunities to carry OUT the industrial economy to our Nation. Those things, first in the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara has a big land that will not be used in production activities. South Africa's land has no conflicts and it is fit for economic activities. In that situation then if it will be given special strategies is enough opportunity for investment in agriculture, livestock and industries. The presence of a big and powerful land, enough rain, tambarare is an attraction of modern farming, rearing and construction of industries for farming and livestock. Another opportunity is the port of Mtwara which has the longest natural gas. The port of Mtwara is enough opportunity for the importation of natural resources from Mtwara and also transportation of goods to the country. It can be used as a door to be able to go to industrial products from this provinces and also lead to various natural resources. The port of Mtwara has a big area which can be used for expansion and construction of infrastructure to improve. Natural gas is another opportunity to guarantee a source of reliable energy for the use of big industries, small and homes. Also additional gas of natural gas, manufactured by publication can be transported to outside the country through the port of Mtwara. It is easy to attract investors to come to start industries in the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara, where it is where the natural gas of generating electricity for the purpose of industries. It is also a way to be able to revive and build other industrialized industries to increase the value instead of being sold with crude in foreign countries. Other opportunities for this regions are production of cashew nuts, cooking and sunflower. The production of this produce is an enough impetus for the start of factories of destroying cashew nuts and to decide the oil and sunflower oil. Farmers can be encouraged to grow up in large numbers, sunflower and cashew nuts and then to make sure the reliable market and a good price for those crops. It is easy to revive cashew nuts in the provinces of Lindi, Mtwara and Tunduru District than starting to build new industries in those provinces or other provinces in the country. Geographical in the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara, it borders the neighboring country of Mozambique which has good relations with Tanzania and therefore the industrial products that will be produced in this regions will have a good market in the northern provinces of Mozambique. On that logic, then it is a clear thing that these provinces have all opportunities to be done to be the special region of the economy of industries here in Tanzania. It will be surprising if the government will continue to attract investors to continue building industries in Dar es Salaam while in the southern provinces there are all opportunities in Dar es Salaam. South African residents should take advantage of these economic opportunities. Joshua Mnuchin is an analyst for economic and Social issues. (0787696900 or joshuamused in jail @ ioo.com) "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1941 wall
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_32263612 Yet the revelations of her sister is thinking: It is a woman who today is proud of the great success as it was able to see for quickly, this mother has managed to grow up with the house they had been hit two. He knows what is completely surrounded by a great Garden But he has livestock Cows Goats And duck eating He also recalls that he had a bedroom but only the workers have lost it. And he has a big children to ensure that one of these houses are made to be the biggest nuisance to receive the whites who are coming from. To do tour In our country of Tanzania? Great success, maybe I tell you that it is a woman who started to wish but the very common mother is a mother who had been employed. Post and phone as he said and after eating a salary is not enough to start working with entrepreneurship, Mdwony started posting a house of his normal house which he was living. Today Even the plot and he has succeeded in a huge amount we are waiting for? Ye has two heads with a lot of legs more than you have no more legs. But it is a very common human being if you have talked about very basic things. We said it as a topic Which is a place where most of us lose, but it is. Things need to change in praising the business displine The discipline in business as well as you see that there is nothing to ask for you to follow up, you can work today tomorrow, the sister didn't do so in the morning, woke up in the morning at the stalls and you've ever worked today, another discipline in the use is not getting a small thing to you, you can never be. He has listed a lot of things I think and you were keen to listen to them so that you can be able to work on your side and you will be able to move forward, we congratulate you so much so that you can be able to make changes in the economy, that is why we say that our ones have a lot of economic changes that we expect from you so much and to look at our period and if we are saying now we will help those who do. They want to try and want us to try a little that we will give them if you know our first part is for the small business people and we know if you can make a small business then even if you do not want a big business that we do not start with a little bit because of we aim many Tanzanians who are crying because they don't have capital now you think that twenty years you can produce as I said, please write us And tell us an analysis will you use in our number. And then we will communicate with you, you will be the side of writing a positive analysis. I was confused that it will be our first to step down because our aim is to help people cannot move forward, trying to write your new analysis was Mark you can now come to try and let us see that you can and believe that if you put the intention you will be able to do so, please stay. Procedures that have been put in terms of writing the process of your analysis and be able to use them. The criteria and conditions will be considered so much to meet next week
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_64623924 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Interests, local ranks have sparked violent protests in 1964, May 31, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the first part of this article last week, we saw how the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defense at the time, Oscar Kambona, was able to convince the soldiers who were arrested on January 21, 1964, to return to the camp, with a promise to address their complaints. We saw how the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius K. Nyerere, he was able to escape the State House to avoid the misunderstanding of the rebels who went to look for him, he went to hide in a place known. The teacher came out suddenly two days later, holding back to power again. However, four days later, the police responded again. Why? Follow this second and last place to get the answer. The second day after his return to the camp, the rebels seemed happy to see English officers leaving them as promised and Kambona. But one out of them wasn't happy like others: Sajini Francis Higo Ilogi. During the funeral of two soldiers on the day, those killed in the street with one Arabs during the rebellion, Sajini Ilogi left the talk about the face. So, is it because they are not able to implement all he promised? Is it because he won't be promoted after leading a rebellion? That day was received reports that the second squad of the army that was in Tabora had been asi, after getting news that Colito's colleagues were asi. They were possible or they had not received reports that Colito had returned to the camp; or they were aware, but they wanted them to do several things in their squad. While the Tabora road is continuing with the rebellion, it was received by a text from Kambona, that he had appointed Captain Miranda Sam Hagai Sarat, to be the head of the squad. At the same time Saracas and other officers were arrested and detained. Sarkin was married, asked the phone to be sent in a voice; then he gave the order to stand up "the same leg," teach the benchers and shot down. And they filmed it. That night, Saracon made plans to fly the English officers to Dar es Salaam and finally their homes. The event of January 21, and that of Tabora together with the situation in Kenya, Uganda and Zanzibar, made the British government to take additional caution by taking over 2,000 soldiers in East Africa. So, the submarine called Rhy, in the coast of Dar es Salaam, and another Centaur; which carried the plane, arrived with 600 soldiers. The third day after the first squad of the first squad on Wednesday, January 23 in the morning, suddenly Nyerere escaped from an open car with Mama Nyerere and the Minister of Internal Affairs, Job Lusinde who visited every part of the city that was affected by rebellion. On Thursday, January 24, it was well; but on Friday, January 25, talks between the government and the rebels seemed to be broken, they ended again. Who was the leader of the second rebellion? Sergeant Higo Ilogi again? Unlike the January 21 rebellion, which does not involve politicians, nor have a political target, the new rebellion was blocked by his political prisoners. Security reports showed that the leaders of the council of workers were meeting with the police who were arrested at the Colito Camp, and that those parties had organized a strike at the end of the week to join the police. The second rebellion was infectious in Kenya and Uganda, as well as the same day, at the same time, and in the same manner. Jomo Kenyatta and Milton Obote heard the hashtags; they are preparing to call the British Army to shut down the rebellion. Nyerere did not want. He did not believe that his own force would not be prosecuted, he and his government. He started believing when security officers showed a list of prospective ministers, that was organized by the rebels. One of his close people went further to tell him that he had been asked to accept to be the vice president after the revolution. A teacher akaloof; we will believe those words, that his government was at risk. Then, about 11: 30 p.m. on the day, a teacher tweeted at State House, Deputy Ambassador of England, Mister F. Stephen Mills; prompting military support. And without delay, Mills took a report to London and replied that the requests were accepted. And Oscar Kambona, went to a race in the British Embassy to look for Bregedia Douglas who was hiding in the country for the whole week, asked for help. On the night of that day, Douglas and another officer, took it up to the submarine Centaur that was in the coast. Saturday; January 26; 12: 20 am, six helicopter from the submarine Centaur took 60 soldiers (including Bregedia Douglas) to a nearby Colito Camp. 10 minutes later, at 12: 30 p.m., the submarine, and another war ship, Twitter, which was waiting for the coast; it started attacks by tanks to threaten rebels. From the distance of 20 meters right now, and with the courage, Douglas escaped with a microphone, that he held his power again; he gave an order to all soldiers to leave the camp with "weapons above" and sit down on the road. After 10 minutes without seeing something, he started counting, "one, two.... ten," the English soldier fired a rocket to the camp. The rebels started to surrender. In the next 10 minutes, 150 soldiers surrendered, and 150 others after one hour. By 1: 30 p.m., all of them had surrendered; the rebellion was denied in an exercise where five police officers were killed, and five others injured. There is no English soldier out of 60 who led the fight, who was injured. And for the whole week of rebellion, at least 17 civilians were killed. While the army of the British Army controlling the rebels of Tanganyika, in Uganda and Kenya and the army had taken a similar step, time, hours and in the same style to the police who had a question (Uganda), and in the 11th squad of Bark-Lanet (Kenya). When the reasons given to Sajini Higo Ilogi was able to get out, he was seen in the morning at the International Monetary Fund (Expcoms), sending a written phone to the UN Secretary General (UN), U Thant, to ask for help. The phone reads: "Tanganyika's forces were abducted by unknown soldiers. Help quickly bring the UN forces. Lieutenant Colonel ILOGI, Chief of Force. " Please go back to our basic question: Who sparked our military coup in 1964? Oscar Kambona? John Okello? Kambona, was the minister responsible for security at the time, where the army was under his ministry. For this reason, his participation in the first phase, cannot be taken that he had shares or that he knows that plan. It is his courage that he sent him to deal with that situation. If you could have had bad intentions to the government; and by considering how he was controlling the situation and the police accused him, he would have come to coup the country where it was in the prison for two consecutive days?. Is it "Field Marshal" John Okello? No; he did not have that time, because for the whole period since the revolution of Zanzibar, he was in the documents to protect and strengthen his administration in the Islands due to the threat of his opponent who claimed they did not participate in the revolution. Okello led the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar for two months in a row before he was excluded. It is not surprising that the rebellion of these soldiers was able to be infected with their Kenyan counterparts and Uganda, considering that the three countries have been born by the British colonization of the country. So, for that period, and in the same time, their grievances got to make it credible for their rights and in a similar manner. I agree with the opinion of Ambassador Abbas Kleist Sykes (quoted in a place in 2001), that, "Tanganyika's rebellion Rifles (ech) earlier in 1964, resulted in a large extent and the delay of the Kizungu's commanders and to promote Africans," as it happened to the police force and other employees in the government. And that's how it was in Kenya's rebellion and Uganda. It is not surprising that, the leaders of the Workers Union joined the rebels in the second phase wanting to bring down the government, from the fact that, since the teacher passed the "African disappointing exercise" in January 1963, they had been not sleeping "until it is understood." As a result of the rebellion, the teacher removed the whole squad of first (Colito Barniks) and to fire 100 police officers of the second squad, Tabora. He concluded that 10 percent of the 5,000 police officers who were at the country were unable to implement their duties. More than 400 people were arrested and questioned, including party leaders; and 500 others were arrested under the Law to prevent danger, but many were released. And the Federation of Workers of Workers in the country (TFL) was canceled, instead it has been formed by the party of NUTA as the ruling party of the ruling party - Tanu. The Teacher appointed Miranda Sam Hagai as the new Head of the Army, and took the rank to Bregedia. At the beginning of April 1964, the British Army left, and his position was taken by the third squad of the Nigerian Army, under Lieutenant Colonel James Pam. Sajini Francis Higo Ilogi was found guilty of the Army and was jailed for 15 years, 13 allies were jailed for five to ten years. The Swahili said, "every bad thing has its blessings." Mwalimu added the minimum wage for soldiers, from 105 / = to 240 / = shillings per month. But the most important thing is that, the rebellion was helping to interrogate and understand the kind of military needed for our country. 'You want to build a new Army completely, we've got to GET the People's Defense Force "(TGT), in the real sense of the Defence Force and for the Citizens. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query4301 intersection crossroads accident
query1864 interpreter
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41937340 How about the promise to show the European finals? 13 APR, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After a long cry of love soccer in the country to be unable to see the English Premier League with many lovers in the country, TBC One will bring the liberation in showing directly to that league at least for some of the matches. Even if the matches we were shown did not involve each other for the themselves of Manchester United, Chelsea, Arsenal and Liverpool but we have seen one of the teams playing with others together with other intense matches that involve the four teams of England with many lovers in the country. For that we are saying very much to TBC One and not to go back. More than the English Premier League, TBC One have been showing the Spanish Premier League and various soccer competitions including inside and outside of our national team, JK Boys are playing with Taifa Stars when they are protected! For all that we say no to TBC One. Together with those sincere gratitude, I request to say I'm sorry for the television station by leaving him because of the suffering that they give us in the implementation of that good thing to show us different soccer matches directly. While announcing the English Premier League matches directly through their World Cup of Football, the BBC London's Swahili show have been trying to inform one week before they were the match which they would show directly. BBC continued to do that until the morning of the broadcasting day of that match within the period of this week. Contrary, TBC One have been doing a lot of secrets about the match to show directly for the relevant week. And when they announce, the announcement is usually given a few times when they see them feel lucky. I don't know why they are not surprising early and for enough time so that many know that maybe the match that will be shown is on Monday at 5.00 pm between Everton and Middlesbrough. The results of "privacy" is that many soccer lovers have lost the battle when they could see. Another thing we are requesting me to curse each other is an act of assured that they will show directly the competition whose schedule is very easy but not to fulfill that promise fully. For example, in the European Nations competitions of this year in Switzerland and Austria, TBC One assured they will show the tournament directly. We were very happy with our love and respect to them, they went very high. Suddenly, our love and respect to them have dropped quickly after just two days of the tournament. After showing us the first match between the hosts Switzerland and the Czech Republic, he mentioned the news report that was followed by a series of business advertisements. Those announcements got the time to start the second match between Portugal and Turkey that has been eagerly awaited by many Tanzanians than the first one! Sadly, that match was not shown by TBC One contrary to the promise of showing that competition! The second day of the competition is not the first match of host Austria and Croatia nor the second match of Germany and Poland seemed to TBC One! I'm sorry to tell them that the second day event was to build a hatred and a lot of love for many soccer lovers of this country to TBC One for them which took them. The hatred is built up to see TBC One is butting them and it is set up to see TBC One is devastating. You don't respect and respect what you hate and ignore us? That of inciting violence is more serious. I love these Tanzanian soccer to see what they are being given, but it can be tolerated but it is difficult for them to endure the lack of disapproval of those changes. That's the worst. TBC with TBC One television, TBC's national radio and TBC FM together with the closeness of news newspapers today and the Daily News failed to tell the citizens in the whole country why it has been unable to fulfill his promise fully, it is very arrogant to the citizens. There should be no reason for all the citizens to be educated than to keep quiet and seem like they say "because they will do what the service itself is free"! That is unacceptable on the basis of better service to the customer (Good Customer care). For these two days, the complaints in the street against TBC One have been very big. Many saying it is the right to show that the competition will be given another television station in the country, maybe TBC One have been given a load! "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1866 editor
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_10482928 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The receipt of the receipt TRA closes the shops in Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. July 31, 2013 some of the business people in Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam, yesterday blocked their shops opposing the use of electronic machines that are used to provide sales receipt as they were required by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). Those shops were scored from the morning and held demonstrations in the streets claiming that those machines are a burden to business people with the aim of oppression. Speaking to sports, businessman Mister. Samson Ngowi who owns a clothes shop in Aggrey Estate, said their stand is to stop the business they are undertaking until TRA will listen to their cry for not using those machines. "Due to the commercial circulation, those machines are a burden to our business people, a big part of the profit, is used to pay taxes thus delaying our goals. "We have done talks with TRA we agreed until November 15th this year, we should not continue using these machines now the action of staying silent is a sign that there is nothing that is going on," he said. He insisted that it is important for the government to recognize the real environment that the traders who use and the influx of taxes collected and caused them to continue. Another businessman, Mister. Juma Tinyango who is owning three shops that are in Kongo- Aggrey, Mwananyamala, said those machines are not recognized as a business procedure between the big businessman, middle and low. He said the cost of those machines are big without considering the income of the businessman thus if the government has the intention of reaching an agreement, it should give those machines free to business people. "There are small business people (pepper) who have spread the various streets of Karimoo contrary to the law, the guards who have been given the job of removing them getting bribes and leaving those businesses are not available because they sell products outside our shops," said Mister. Tinyango. He said that the government has been unable to remove those people whose businesses are planning outside their shops and they don't pay taxes, an issue that contributes to the use of those machines. And Mister. Winston Hemba said it has come at the time of the government to speed up the discussions between them and TRA in line with the answer to ensure the pain, they are removed quickly. Some of the business people in that area were seen not to know anything after going to their business areas and found many shops have been closed and they are forced to enter the strike if they fear to undergo violence if they will open and appear. Different people who came to Kariakoo to look for different needs and found many shops have been closed, they requested the government through TRA, to see the importance of doing a joint meeting with business people so as to finish the different differences. Mr Trump Said. Lucas Matata, a resident of Kibaha, Coast Province, said the closure of some of those shops especially medicine is a violation of human rights. On his part, the acting director of services and education to the taxpayer of TRA, Diana Masalla, said they have had talks between them and government officials thus any time they will release a statement on the government's stand. The armed Police Force (FFU), strengthened security in many streets of Kariakoo with fire weapons and tear gas to strengthen security. The police commander of Kipolisi, Ilala Province when they were looking for him from the morning so as to talk about the whole issue of safety in Kariakoo estates, his phone was being received by his assistant who claimed that the commander speaks with another phone. In October this year, the business people in Mbeya province also held a protest to boycott the machines in which the situation resulted in huge violence. The police force in that province, which was forced to ban tear gas to prevent the traders not to make a meeting aimed at opposing the use of those machines. Such violence has also happened the day before yesterday in Songea in Ruvuma province where business people have opposed the machines and claimed that they disturb them and sold at a high price. The traders said they are not ready to use those machines because they are aiming to suppress them, stop them without basic reasons and want the old system to continue. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_23170419 When I go back, I went to that without it, I hadn't eaten and today Hell Now you know what I was in mine because there is my guy by putting it in the lips, I just don't want it unless I went to the hospital why before. And yes, it's just that it has done my condolences to the sir, why are they taking a mi I thought it was like a mother, even a woman for a man. Not waking up in the morning I have done if they had done. That's on the top of tomorrow I was expected to stand, I know then I had a lot of water. When I got if these people have been killed And I have said that just you think they will tell you because they are reading and take the end it is hit, I'm sorry for it to take it. Here is Kenya there is not a Tanzanian here to come to you, I know I am and he had taken a water because you know what I have been at ten o'clock this time it shares one hour. Yes
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_27933112 The police force squad of the defense force of the citizens of Tanzania, Tanzania has arrested ten people and two Somali citizens who are accused of being fund those who have been arrested in the area of ocean to stop the image of Mafia and Mafia. The head of the military force in the country, Major General Said Shaban Omari, has said that the fund has thrown the school ship to use it to stop the cargo ships in the ocean of our life, Etty Kusiluka has prepared the following report Various international links have been lt; unk, gt; I'm not in actions Alcoholic beverages in Tanzania is the first time in this thousand years is early. Inside this water, he has been arrested twelve desks. This A small room in the small room, when they were accused of these five piracy between the ten and two among them entered the ship of the school they wanted and to use the professionals of this work they call it 'mother show that is expected to be brought in the country. The head of the military force in the country, Major General Saidi Shabani Omary says that the instrument is dangerous because it is used for attacks within him being found with three weapons has no Effect in the city of clean one hundred and sixty newspapers, we are five together with the level of cooperation between the international media and other nations that is the reason that made the arrest of these people alleged to be fund from Somalia. So as to emerge with this topic and its people King kabee Good luck afterward So the answer? He was arrested by a ship. So Stakeholders One ohh Iddi maybe and For all sailors arriving, these suspects are youths between the ten and twenty years and twenty-eight years who are in the country, Mister Ismael abase Rashid Hassan Halima Maulid hasan and ali Abdullah recently, Tanzania has signed an agreement to deal with piracy of terrorism and terrorism in the ocean, Etty Kusiluka.
query4309 lorry truck life existence
query3517 bid for tender for
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_71419137 Ndanda will block Toto Kirumba "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Alexander Sanga, Mwanza "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 04 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The soccer team of Toto Africans of the city yesterday failed to use it well at his home stadium CCM Kirumba, after losing 1-0 goals against Ndanda. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ndanda got that goal in the ninth minute scored by Omary Mponda after scoring the ball of Ramadhan Malima of Toto and knowing the net. Malima has been lucky because yesterday he played his first match of his team and caused the team to be defeated. That is the second match Toto is losing home, another is against Mbeya City that was played last week. After that match, Toto fans stormed their coach Rogassian Kaijage urging him to destroy their team thus they want to leave. However, the police stopped the violence and the fans of that team started singing "best Tegete (John-coach of Toto) than Kaijage." Speaking to this newspaper after that match, Coach Kaijage said he was preparing to resign anytime. "I don't have to say but I am preparing to resign anytime from now. (Yesterday)." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query493 transportation boat vessel
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45481067 The great report is the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, Tanzania, Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, says the government needs to enable women economically, whereby the research statistics of its two and ten economic figures show that twenty-three percent of women have a low income and thinking income for men in the country, while addressing at the peak of the commemoration of the women's bank which has given loans of twenty-four billion shillings that entertaining the percentage and eight of the women in the country like a visitor without from the province as he has the following report President Kikwete says that in addition to bringing them on his establishment, it also helps in the establishment of the parties to put and borrow, help to create a good environment in various institutions of small loans in the country, it will help eight percent of women to participate in a small business, I want maybe and so as to overcome your poverty and the family in general. Help In the beginning that up to two thousand women and nine thousand women. I had since been on the first because it wasn't a cash capital. I said that I will release the money it is three billion Tanzanian shillings. And why is it every year and for that reason? We will welcome them. Helping the citizens Sometimes they don't have when they need it. And why the answers you have the activities of doing we get all the money but I request it President Kikwete has added that the government has increased the number of women in leadership positions as a step of taking their rights that have given them for a long time due to the bull system. We are doing this We do not care for women why not fun Happy fun You can find it. Then we are fulfilling our responsibility Of loving actresses It comes back to women their rights And their benefit that the society has given them drinking for a long time And they did not kill the nations and they have said that it will continue supporting the government's efforts in empowering women economically. The Union of donor nations and development stakeholders will continue to help the improvement of gender equality and women's rights. Planning is choosing To decide who is confident and to fulfill the dream of when we reached, to build up to the government so that it hurts, I see the women they are enabled through loans given by the savings of money while women together with the minister of community development and also children to identify the success of being driven by a woman here So das de ten groups and one of them are still waiting for a total number of women and one is getting everything that is required to enable women economically and to increase their participation at the level of decisions of accounts that were opened up from uju in front is fourth, Martha dust passing up until now, we have a translation of war, and to enable women economically and to increase their participation at the level of election decisions that were opened up from uju in front of the four women in Morogoro province this year is the empowerment of a woman explaining the time now. Right now Hell
query3647 cashew nut
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_18628057 This is not all if they deserve it. It is cool that I told me that I have told me that he didn't want to leave why he knows where you are seen, we'll try to get justice but you have not given them very much the sun. You're still waiting for him? To prepare you, you know somebody who will give him his time when it's not all that you are talking about them. The market was gone He said that they ran away, let's go to know that the disappearance is also difficult to follow up and wait for him to take him back home. Why is you not seeing the malry for the police is even the one who has a mym I said if you know that it's okay but the only thing that you know is right but it's not just how much I don't know if you don't even know how many of them are. When you yeah, you will end you know he is an honest person It's also mym and then what is the brush on crush. There are some who crush them is saying not they have told me to be honest, there is no faithful. It's okay but we trust him on bail and he spoke to us by phone and he told us that we are coming to see him go to mi Yeah, it is a must that one week let us go so completely in the border, so we should know that there is a way they will sell Malindi or where we should know. Most of those who think as he went as he went to go to bring back to a place of noise like Indians well Ehit isn't the reason why he went to a place like the line first ran out, he would not be dismissed as a good place in a good place. And we are reminded me of the noise, so we should say another and we now mi told him only. Mi I am okay, I don't know and Linda More know that is why we made the wedding they will know that they are equal to the problem you know you consider it clearly.
query498 EXAMPLE _OFocean
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25986909 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TFF to put it clear the regulations of his competition last week, the issue of Simba player, Novert Lufunga took the position in the headlines after the police soccer team defeated the appeals after the team brought together in the list while he has a red card. The police blocked the appeals for Simba for what terms as it made Lufunga in the Federation Cup last week. In that game, Simba won 2-0 goals. In his appeal, the police wanted to win a victory due to the step of Simba sprayed the player. However, TFF has dismissed the police appeals for details that it did not meet the criteria because it did not have 300,000 shillings that are supposed to be accompanied by appeals. However, together with TFF to leave that appeal, there have been various complaints of the law, regulations and procedures of the competition for what is explained to be a big part of the FA Cup, will be supervised by the rules of the premier league. Basically, what is needed is for TFF to make regulations that will make every independent competition because they have its approach. Even if some of the regulations are similar, there are other areas that will go to each other. The regulations of the FA Cup should be different from the premier league so as to eliminate the controversy that can come out. The good example is the FA Cup regulations, as well as being used in the Premier League, yet the FA Cup is a knockout, therefore there are areas where they are arguing. We think it is good for TFF through its technical committee to look at how to create regulations for every competition because the position is there and it is possible to do so. Making it easier for having one regulation in a different competition brings controversy. A good example is the code of 16 (2) which is saying, the competition of the Azam Sports HD competition will be led by these regulations as well as the regulations of the league VPL, FDL & SDL. The TFF competition committee will have a responsibility to review, discuss and give a decision on all the events that are happening every round according to the regulations of this competition and the league (VPL, FDL & SDL). Another area has said, the competition of the Azam Sports Federation Cup is for elimination, the use of the league regulations involve the areas that allow the operations of the knockout competition. This is one of the regulations, because the premier league has no knockout competition. Another problem is the regulations that were given by the FA Cup which does not have a section that includes cards, be red or yellow. Due to a lot of mix, that is why we want TFF to be with the regulations of every competition and it should set it open early before the concerned games to start because every club is required to understand and be focusing on. But this event should be a lesson, not for Simba and TFF alone, but with other clubs of the premier league or participating in the competition with an official procedure to have units that will help to put records for the club. If there is a memory, Lufunga wouldn't have a chance. The leaders of Simba, TFF everyone would be aware and it would not happen and cause complaints. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_21836313 When I go and there is a mym Mym why did I thank the user the day you see that he is halo ehhe. Not I tell you going to go to a person there but not speculation that people are building the plantations in the plantations in every place he would be Ben ehhe ehhe moved to fifty years to go. Ehr His price is how many times this price is how many times it is god When you should not look at well, we should know how to do so, what should we do so then we should know what will happen if we can in those debates. Ehhe hundred and then there is four hundred and five hundred thousand shillings. Halo
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_83260849 Wickets and plantations in the south of Kenya have started to change their traditions for lack of lists but they are the wildlife guards who come back quickly in East Africa. They use the bug _ P _ s shows a map and where a person is instead of torture. Another one of those youths says things are changing again, I have no Emergency Today they remember it is hard to urge Simba even by following their feet. It is a clever man They know how to hide it so that you don't know but also know how to attack our struggle but to me as a viewer I know it was very difficult to be. I sell it like that for activities In Moran's culture before a young man is a must He should show his courage for killing Simba SC But at the moment, the effort is to educate the Masai to know the behavior of the animals to look for animals that are disrupted by fear and children have disappeared to be accompanied by the co-founder of the project to protect Simba's layer of doctors, as john brennan is that all the project is not to protect Simba alone from Contractors timestamp without shala, we try to be Simba, so that is our great job. But don't worry everything we do is for the community The most important thing is to ensure your communities are safe we help You know the mi are the first in everything the number of guards in the south of Kenya has increased from five people to forty years since the project started with Simba's population has increased by three times. In neighboring Rwanda, Simba had gone missing for the last five years but when Simba came up again that the wildlife security guards were unable to deal with their number and requested the guardians project to help them. The director of the park in Rwanda about Gadner says Thabit. The group's experts teach their guards how to close Simba and follow them After one month they started to see them with the media to follow them So as to know the condition of treatment and their behavior and because they are due to the success, the project is expected to expand towards Tanzania and Zimbabwe.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_91554515 I haven't yet called his number, I don't have a phone I don't know why I don't know what is bad with his mym. You try to tell us that the money is not so long as a person for this water. AHH I haven't heard all it now not only six hundred people a month then again, it will be tweeted by someone. They want to tell you who are there and there is no one who is there now, his money will be what he will or not coming from the morning he shares it. No, it's not the whole of those who will put it again, they will only be open again and there is probably what has been hit by the door Where will they open and put it up? Ohh too, with the door must come from And those who are headed for acknowledged the phone Ohh is still open and down if you are all over, when you are doing it is just as usual, that means it is done for justice because it is not to steal. The moment now of mathe will not do the one with a set of set, it will do Billy I come to the water so the house has had things. That's until the other one will not end Ehr
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_27999517 Even mi I called me back to return In the economic news today, the executive director of the private sector in the country TPSF Godfrey Simbeye has said that the economy through the conference is aimed at building the private sector to contribute to the national income. In a meeting of stakeholders in the private sector in Mwanza Province, he says that the program involves people who are in the private sector to partner in the establishment of industries and other economic activities in their areas. We meet in implementing the decisions of the special general meeting of the party that now let's go back to members closely, we should understand the meaning of joining them to discuss the elections so that later to make decisions that we cannot do elections. The Team that by the sixth month we'll have a Baby. Yes Which will have been the leader of the cricket is in maromboso, we talk to the executive director of the bank.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17635394 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After being left out of Simba said, "my level is still there." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The goalkeeper who opened the door to leave the Estate of Msimbazi, Juma Kaseja has said the reports of his left is heard in the media only, and that even if it is true he has not surprised him because he believes his level is still standing on the line. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For more than a week now, the media have been sharing information that lacked detailed information about being left out of the goalkeeper number one of Simba and the captain of the national team of Tanzania, Taifa Stars. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kaseja who is currently in Kigoma for a break, he said that he understands that his contract with Simba has been completed since the end of the last season, therefore he is a free player. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "I hear that I have been said to Simba, but actually I have not got a letter and even if I would have told me, I would not be surprised because my contract with Simba was completed," said Kaseja. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The goalkeeper with the only record in the country, he said that he does not have a fight with the leadership of Simba and not to inform them if they won't add the contract. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "I have not even one day to be informed that I will not be added a new contract after the previous day. There is no leader who has told anything more to hear in the media that I don't want, "said Kaseja. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "For now I cannot speak a lot because I don't have that right now, the time you will talk. I rest while I am going to do exercises because soccer is my employment, "added Kaseja. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kaseja who scored for Simba for nine consecutive years since 2003, he was not ready to disclose his direction if the decision was left out of Simba will remain. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said: "I cannot say anything at the moment, but when the right time comes I will put it open my things. I believe I still have the ability and we will never give up even if I will leave Simba. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Since announcing the departure of Kaseja more than a week ago, internal reports from Simba claimed that the decision has given birth to a conflict between leaders. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Although the chairman of Simba Aden Rage, was once quoted saying that the goalkeeper will not wear the jersey of Msimbazi next season, his fellow leaders are opposing that decision. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kaseja had been reported by the fans of Simba at the end of the last season urging him to play under a high level that caused him to be scored against a white goal. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3041 friend person farm cultivated land
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_91027076 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. DAWASCO will be able to end water problems in the year 2020 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent, Coast "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 10 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. District commissioners in Dar es Salaam and Pwani province, have urged the clean and clean water agency in Dar es Salaam (Dawasco) to ensure the chronic problems of water services in Dar es Salaam city is expected by the year 2020. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That was said by the head of Ilala District, Sophia Mjema during the tour of the heads of the district of Dar es Salaam and Coast in the production of water production that was under Dawasco. Speaking on behalf of the heads of his colleagues, Mjema said that the tour has helped to give them a light of the activities done by Dawasco and even to see the big projects that was done by the government in ensuring that the citizens are getting clean and safe water. "We have seen a big investment that is going to be done by the government through the Ruvu upper Water plants and Ruvu lower, therefore we as leaders and representatives of the citizens, we must request Dawasco to increase strength in ensuring that water is reaching many citizens so that the water problem will reach in time," said Mjema. District commissioner of Kinondoni, who was in that tour, Ally Happi called for Dawasco to continue to link to customers' services at the time and also fighting the thieves of the water that hinder the efforts of the authority by stealing water and destroying water infrastructure. The chief executive officer of Dawasco, Cyprian Luhemeja explained that the authority is continuing with the campaign to connect new customers and explained that until now the current reactions are great since the start of that work under the campaign of Mama Tua buckets in the head. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_61045487 Then tell me something then I hear my voice Mym AHH is not the one that I love it is not what we want to get the know of the song and there is now to tell me that it is not only one, you know you know it's cool but until now it is not two, I would like to then do you then we will talk to you. It's not said that I love it because it is and what is it? SA do not just hear that you like the rounds and I don't like the soul I was often going on. Now I tell me what you are not telling us what we want to do, you know the one of who is going on to the Pastor. And so AHH is not telling you AHH has said that okay, they can be able to then before say dannett, I don't know what I don't know but I love it. Aai is not all here only mym So cool it was how they will get. Ehr He didn't let me ask me to ask me that I don't stop your mym Chris ehhe is Dec so much Plot of sa we will repeal even though I don't know who AHH and endanga Network Chris I am saying that is your line. Chris cannot for the or please? Ohh Eric Aai is not one of the six one, money is called Private to the other. Here is an earthquake to follow him
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_52905921 Minister: There is a shortage of vaccine "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Angela Semaya, Dodoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 16 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government has confessed the existence of some vaccines in some of the health centers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The minister of health, community development, gender, elderly and children, Ummy Mwalimu has said that today when he speaks to journalists in Dodoma town about the state of vaccination in the country. He has mentioned the vaccine that are reduced to be for the purpose of opposing the disease of surua and rubella (Mr), tuberculosis (BCG), polio (GV) and pepper spray (TT). According to Ummy, those vaccines are used for the sake of children when they are born up to two years and pregnant women according to the vaccination guidelines, given by the ministry to stop those diseases. He has said, in order to deal with that shortage, the ministry has already bought and it is expected to receive a total of two million doses that will arrive on September 19, this year, the pepper vaccine which will arrive on September 26th, this year and the vaccine to oppose the tuberculosis amount of two million doses that will arrive on September 28th, this year. He said when they will arrive, the vaccine will be distributed quickly to the whole country by using the medical stores department (MSD). He mentioned the vaccine that don't have a shortage that is a vaccine that is against pneumonia, the vaccine on diarrhea (Rotarix) and the vaccine that is against the diseases, breakfast, fever, and deadly fever and are continuing to be released as usual in the health centers in the country. Minister Ummy said previously the Treasury had given a total of 1.6 billion shillings for the initial vaccine three months, which are expected to arrive but the Treasury has given a 6.1 billion shillings for the purchase of other vaccine for surua and rubella and are expected to be sent by the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF), who are buyers of the vaccine on behalf of the government of Tanzania. In this financial year, the government has set aside 60 billion shillings for those vaccines. He has said that despite the shortage of vaccination, there are some of the district vaccine, one type does not exist while other districts are many. He wanted the chief physicians of all provinces, to verify the statistics of vaccination and to distribute the district to the district so as to ensure the stations get the existing vaccine. He has urged the citizens, especially parents and guardians of the age of getting vaccination, when they get the report of the presence of vaccination that took them immediately to the children who did not have completed the vaccine according to the schedule so as to complete their vaccine. Also for the casualties that went to the stations and lack vaccination, they go to the centers that are close to get their vaccine according to the doctors. He has assured the citizens that health services including vaccine, continue to be released in the country and are given free to continue using those services at all times, because the vaccine is the basic right of every child. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_38281978 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The harvest of the plantations are being taken to shut down the dangers of lack of food in the past season, was being led by the coalition of events while some of the areas receiving the harvest. This situation was contributed by climate change due to several issues, the main contribution of these changes being environmental destruction as a result of getting careless trees, delivery of dangerous gas from industries. First, some of the areas witnessed rain in large numbers that it poured during harvesting and this situation caused the harvesting and contributing food in the farm. The other areas didn't receive the rain completely, the plants went down soon after publication. The weather department issued an announcement that there would be a risk of food shortages in Africa and the Asian continent are some of the ones mentioned. This time I take the opportunity to give an opportunity to all who succeeded to get something. This is not the time to think things to sell yields. A reminder of Samuel, a bond scandal is not a joke ASEMAVVE on the head of CORE about the scandal of bond to be taken by humor. As the opposition leader, their responsibility is to look and criticize the ruling government. The issue of corruption has become a song in this country. Twaweza said Mister Raila Odinga only criticizes the government of Honorable Kenyatta but he should be sure of it. The government should listen and consider his term as he has not mentioned some of those involved in the scandal. University of Coffee The University of Somali University (CUE) is not to be taken by the country's university education commission (CUE) is not to be taken by any institution that holds high-level training in various sectors of conflicts in the community, and that it cares for our youth the tradition of many African nations to feel poor to see corruption in the country for now. Most of the young people have been quoted claiming that they can't stand up and get out of corruption. The issue that has left me a lot of attention. This is now the idea of developing young people with poor vision in the country and to sabotage the nation's economy. The claims that they made these youths do not have a stand because most of them claimed that everyone is involved, even us Twaweza. The government was volunteering to destroy illegal alcohol, most of the beneficiaries were young people. It is the responsibility of the government to explain the public how the allocation of those funds are run by projects implemented. GIDRAPH Mwangi (MC, Nairobi elite) Ten institutions of the university that were ordered by the commission have every reason to follow the order. Lack of adequate resources and basic infrastructure is one of the challenges that hit the universities emerged and contributed to the level of education in the country. My mission to the commission is to have a thorough investigation into every university crisis between various communities in the country has continued to destroy the innocent citizens. The conflicts arising from the ownership of resources has continued to tremendous. The efforts to bring these classes together have been hardly fruit. Kelvin Kihara Njoki, close together so as to ensure that our scholars are being given my high school studies. GIDRAPH Mwangi KIMC, Nairobi chap chap is empty words? In every occasion, there are those who benefit from some point and others are crying in their hands. In an indication of many development projects that benefited from various projects are continuing to vote for Mutua. However, there are voices of cry from citizens that are opposing the leadership of Governor Mutua. Some of the locals saying that the style of performance performance is one of the words without actions. Veronica MUM of John Okello, the University of Cups, judges to deal with corruption in the country has been a chronic issue that is censored because it is the one that destroyed this country and Kenyans too. The Police department is some of the units affected by this issue. Another report published in the Nation suggest that the traffic police unit takes over three hundred thousand shillings a day. I take this opportunity thanks to the judges' board and the judge for their day before yesterday against the judges and the judge who are associated with corruption scandals and lack of justice. Your daughters, Nairobi "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_36409018 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Karume "graphic," but his painful truth Nov 29, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This article will conclude my assessment of the 8th general meeting of CCM that took place in Dodoma since November 11th to November 14th this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Since the Party of Revolution (CCM) is a state of a dollar, its crush is usually lying to people and believe that every after the general meeting, CCM is always in afresh. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This belief has been built up in the fact that, before the general meeting, there are some signs of mines and several groups of groups wanting their agenda to overcome. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Due to the control of state agencies together with the sidelines of the country, the plans are stuck and made many people believing that CCM has themselves, and those who do make it afresh every after the general meeting! "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The history of this concept is long, and the victims (victims) of this strategy in recent years is Salmin Amour (Komandoo), Mzee John Malecela, Doctor. Gharib Bilal, Samuel Sitta and now Edward Lowassa. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the past years, Mzee Aboud Jumbe and Sharif Hamad. Due to clear reasons, this strategy to give the new life CCM usually affects the people of Zanzibar than they are held. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. President Karume and "nonsense" as the vice chairman who is completing his term, the retired president of peace Karume was welcomed to give his advice on the day of closing the meeting. He gave a speech, which is now called for the cooking in Magogoni and Lumumba Street. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There is no one that expected that Karume would say the words that he said that day, the amount of chairman Jakaya Kikwete admitting that he has never seen him happy with that amount "as he saw that day. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Several times his speech was threatened by people calling for him to finish and stay. This was reminded of the era of Benjamin Mkapa's chairperson when Kikwete netizens were calling for everyone who wanted to question the use of bribery in that meeting. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mzee Joseph Butiku remembers this and he wrote a letter to the chairperson Mkapa. This will remember us that the boycott has not started with CHADEMA in meetings. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When he was read to him, President Karume urged them to talk about the cries and contrasting of fish! Some claiming, President Karume was given a lot of attention to that day. He should have been given or thrown out; it is a bowl or not a mom; for me it is not the news. The important news is what he said for the minutes he was given. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Karume spoke about his ASP card (Afro Shiraz Party); he explained the purpose of ASP; he asked Doctor. Shein as he has his ASP card. One of the purpose of ASP reminded that it is to protect the freedom of Zanzibar and its people. Then he asked those who blocked their colleagues to give their opinions about the coalition. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He reminded President Kikwete that he gave permission to everyone to say what he wants during the process of releasing a new constitution. He was questioning how many others are arrested for expressing their opinions. Karume reminded the way CCM has lost some of the states as a reason to ignore the opinion of the citizens. He reminded me of the shifts between the member of parliament and representative in certain province. Zambians did not want to hear this accused of the civilization of "allegiance." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Let me say that even if I was tired, I sit outside the hall while he is speaking, Karume said things are more important than the hours given by other honorable members. In a short time, Karume called the dictatorial dictatorship in CCM; he noted the dangers that faces the union; he reminded the news of the shifts of leading the country that was caused by two countries; and more importantly, he said from his heart that ASP has not died because his members are still alive. CCM we have ze or we will say, that is the truth from Karume, who is now the name is nonsense and women Nape Nnauye. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There was a hashtag for three days, Tanzania witnessed more than 2000 members who were crying and complaining inside the hall. The chairperson launched the attack and was received by delegates at the official meetings in the sleeping houses and in vehicles. The Shadow Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) formed a lot of delegates and made the leaders to lose direction and start insulting the careless. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It was not expected that the chairman also would have entered into the trap, when he found them to insult the opponents and especially CHADEMA by calling them "bad people," or when in NEC, he is using a lot of time to beat Nape Nnauye because he knows how to be with CHADEMA. Even when he was reminded by his friend that to insult CHADEMA, it is not a must to get CCM, he threatened to say "they have left Nape to address them." The work that defeated him, he sees it best to make Nape. As Mzee Rasheed Kawawa when he used to a teacher, Nape is the same for Kikwete! "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The old man from the Southern Highlands questioned, how come CHADEMA be a threat to CCM than corruption and corruption is a threat? CHADEMA come as a threat than "undugged" stations "that is interested in the position of recognition in our party's constitution? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said, how come the chief advisers of our party's chairperson about the issues of the party, not sessions but are the security that are fitted? This was the same symbol and many who were complaining for three days of the meeting. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Membe: Alimitating Mangula; has changed again. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The position of Bernard Membe for the politics of this nation in the future was in a very difficult exam. The camp of his former friend, Edward Lowassa was unable to bear him but he was rescued by Kikwete and his family. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kikwete helped him by changing the voting schedule, while his family (his wife and his child) were worried every corner to seek votes Bernard Membe. This nation one day will claim to know the truth of tensions and friendship of these three people - Membe, Kikwete and Lowassa. Name Kikwete is getting ready in the middle. She is the key to this uncertainty. We had to leave it Now. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mzee Philip Mangula when he emerged as a sudden as the vice chairperson of CCM Mainland. This is also the online group that brought him to the State House, claiming that he was disappointed during that company and decided to throw him soon after Kikwete was sworn in. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yassaid, Benard Membe, an experienced man and an illusion of the strategies of the natural network, told Kikwete that Mangula gave him a very difficult situation thus he is removed from the position of the secretary general of the party. It does not end up there, Mzee Mangula when he tried to show up to Iringa as the chairman of the province that was dealing with him and was defeated by a person who does not belong to CCM for all the criteria. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mzee Mangula admitted later that inside CCM, the leadership is on an auction and the voters do not want to stop the candidates' leaflets, but they want to "be swept away." Mzee Mangula, whenever he is reminded of the activities of the network, he always thinks that he was being offered by "faulty." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There is news that Mzee Mangula has emerged with the support of Membe. That, several sessions were done to Makambako among these two. Whether for Membe to be willing or sent, it is that they met the agenda was an election in the 8th general meeting. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He was apologized or had not been asked, that is not the news. The news is that the general meeting has given Mzee Mangula as the deputy chairperson of CCM but the chief executive was Membe. If this project was for the benefit of the party or for the benefit of his network he is designed for 2015, it is an issue of time. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. If it is true, then it will be difficult to denounce the networks inside this party. As Membe's network is legitimate, Lowassa cannot be illegal. If Kikwete entered with the internet, it is difficult to think about CCM and the presidency without the internet. And we have learned in bitterness that the network did not get in the elections because, after their person being elected, what is next is to benefit the sweat and the fruits of work. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For those who failed, there is a work to assess where they are stuck and hoped continental. It is a dream of each other to break the groups when whoever wins and entered the State House continues with his group. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Only one thing the Elder Mangula was to read it. Membe who is alleged to bear him after the 2005 elections in front of Kikwete, he cannot change today and defend himself as a good person who goes to the party. Why did he not be in 2005 under the chairman hug this? Membe is the same one, the chairperson is the same one, the party is what and Mangula is the same one! What has changed to make Mangula who is not in 2005, afae in 2012? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. What is seen but you are not surprised but clearly, it is the fact that Kikwete and Membe see companion / rival Lowassa being more than the presidential candidate of CCM 2015. For them, Lowassa has turned out to be a party; he has ruled CCM in front of their eyes and think Mangula will help them to save CCM that is hostage in the hands of Lowassa. Kikwete and Membe have not said the story is what has created Lowassa and made him put him out of CCM. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The act of returning to the former "enemy" and their party will be able to help them to form the party that destroys it in their hands, is not understandable. Many thought, the general meeting would garner the opportunity to assess this situation, instead we ended up with arguing that are not an order. We wait for another special general meeting or that of 2017. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_96180989 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Prisons, PPF to invest in Karanga Shower "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Regina Kumba "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 05 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In supporting the commitment of the fifth term government of making the country of industries, the prisons force has entered into an investment contract with the pension fund of PPF in the project of the shoe factory of Karanga in Kilimanjaro Province. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That agreement was signed in Dar es Salaam yesterday between the executive director of PPF, William Erio and the commissioner general of the prisons force, John Minja through the organization of that army of production. Commissioner Minja said that the army is supporting the efforts of President John Magufuli in making the country to be industrialized, therefore the agreement will involve the construction of a new factory for processing the skin and placement of modern machines for producing skin products in that factory. Also, the factory will produce other skin products. "The investment in that factory will help our army to reach the thirst of producing skin products with high quality and that involve competition in the internal and international market, therefore, to fulfill our nation's goals in achieving the industrial economy by the year 2025," said Minja. Commissioner Minja said that investment will enable all security and security agencies in the country, to buy shoes and other equipment for the skin products produced in that factory that will be improved and lost a new machine. In addition, Commissioner Minja said that the factory will also be able to make school shoes of students who for now its availability is a problem. "The strategy of the prison forces right now is to continue improving various areas as well as to take advantage of the available opportunities so as to ensure it is expected to attain the success that is expected in the implementation of its responsibilities," said Commissioner Minja. On his part, Erio, said the professionals are planning to be careful who within 30 days will be complete so as to look for money for that project, which is expected to start within one and a half years. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58514615 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Eight arrests in Arusha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Yasinta Amos, Arusha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 15 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The election committee of the Tanzania Football Association (ARFA) has put publicly the names of former candidates in the interview that took place on December 10th this year under the supervision of a representative of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The presidential candidates in that interview with the opportunity they are vying in brackets are Omary Walii and Peter Temu (chairperson), Zakayo Mjema (secretary general), Mwine Nasorro (assistant secretary), Omary Nyambuka (treasurer). Others are Athumani Mhando, Hamiss Issa (delegate of the TFF general meeting), Soud Maohamed (member of the executive committee of ARFA). Who was expelled after failing to interview is James Rugby, Fredrick Lyimo, Gerald Munisi, Maiki Warioba and Victor Mwalila. The secretary of the ARFA election committee, Selemani Kilua said some of the candidates did not meet the criteria and qualifications that among those criteria is a form four certificate and experience of five years in leadership. "We announced all the candidates that the day of interviews must come up with the real certificate of form four and not copies and by pointing out that is why the candidate who did not come with a real certificate was dismissed so that the elections should be fair," said Kilua. Previously 13 candidates came out to vie for various positions that are the chairperson, deputy chairperson, secretary general, assistant secretary, treasurer, member of the general meeting, member of the club and three delegates of the executive committee. The ARFA has been planned to take place on January 8 in the year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_92129702 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Vehicles company contributes to development in Arusha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by John Mhala, Arusha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 15 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Dharam Singh who is making the board of tourism vehicles in the city, has set aside millions of money for various development activities of the residents of that city and its neighborhoods. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is stated that it is one of the ways of supporting the efforts of the fifth phase government of caring for the low-level citizens. While speaking at the launch of the bridge of connecting different locations and Engaged in Arusha that was built with that company at a cost of more than 67 million shillings, the owner of that company, Hans Paul said his company is in hand with the government in Arusha province by caring for the low-level citizens. Paul said that bridge is a savior and a donation to many citizens who were getting a big problem of crossing especially during the rains due to lack of a reliable ferry and that was previously revealed a high risk for children, the elderly, motorcycle riders, pedestrian on both feet and more there is no vehicle that had the ability to pass there. He said apart from building that bridge, the company has constructed three classrooms in Engaged Ward at a cost of more than 50 million shillings, being one of the ways of wanting the students studying in class and sit in desks. That owner said that together with building and providing assistance, the company has employed more than 500 indigenous employees in three different companies that he is used, being one of the ways of solving the employment problem in Arusha and here in the country as a whole. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_74022760 IS the lads involved in attack in Berlin City "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. December 22, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Islamic State group has claimed that on Tuesday evening through its organization of Amaq propaganda that has been involved in a lorry attack against the market of selling Christmas products in Berlin and caused the deaths of twelve people and injured 48 others on Monday, December 19. Previously the German police announced that they arrested one man, a Pakistani citizen showing him to be among those involved in the attack. But a short time later, the police has said it is not sure that the citizen was involved in that incident. The police commander in Berlin, Kendt has said there is a lot of attention to the suspect that he has not heard this is happening when the Pakistan citizen was accused of being involved in the attack in Berlin has been freed. Kansela Angela Merkel, who visited the scene, has said it will be very painful if it was revealed that the driver will be a refugee and added that it must trust him that this is a terrorist attack. Ka n'l a M e'l has been married for his policy to allow refugees to enter the country for security fear "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_90986624 Simba's rivals and Yanga when they meet one when he opened up why he must be searched for a mawi I can say that one thing I can say that there is politics. Matches for us here in Tanzania? We believe that we are talking about the match that we are talking about Simba and Yanga is a team that is for me it does not believe that it is a team that is building even the national team but the time it comes to the whole issue that everyone is on the sidelines. You will leave a certain player, when you take a mi so that I am going to end you and I don't know if you talk about the issue of political politics I don't know. All these days even the men are femming. AHH is another thing if registration Registration is taking place between Simba and Yanga looking at Simba and Yanga players. Most of the time you found the players who is coming from Simba who came into Yanga who came out of Yanga who returns to Simba but those of the problem I do that we are doing. If you are wanted that you got a certain team that has brought ownership has come. And troops There is nothing else I'm talking with fans of talking about it The team as a team is talking about those who go to the field, those twenty-two players took it until they represent the team but even teams like the team are fans who support that you know completely, I am a fan of Simba and Simba, we are so many shows that how they have Simba's strong power I am talking about. We fans are the team But the team's comments are ten and one in the field, those who represent those fans are another issue that can talk about. Limited ideas for players So, how is it looking for example if you look for example, as a journalist, he went out and went to Tottenham Going to check but what happened after the return of preparations so as to get the power he did back to back. That wouldn't be the presence of confidence to believe that he can do something to them but using and confident he doesn't. These are some of the things that make the fact that the massacre will be abolished It has been a situation of sitting only to say that mi I will be in Simba, I love Yanga but there are players who look at it. Other teams like the army, but the lines have good players more than them but the ability and the one that these are players is the reason or we continue to think.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17518872 Coast threats in efforts to revive games to promote talents in the community has been urged to contribute to the sector. In the state and assets so as to enable the children to develop their talents including giving them a field to play for Abdulaziz reports. The threats are read here in the studio and Beatrice Oryx That call has been made by the member of parliament of Kilwa district in the northern region of Mangungu as he was handing over the second phase of sports equipment to all secondary schools in Kilwa district in the province of threats All with the value of fifteen million shillings Speaking to the captain, after handing over the equipment to the councilors of that district, Mangungu has said that there is still a challenge in sports development especially the community not supporting various efforts of athletes, we can't say the eating is behind. From dares Salaam, we will bless us to bless you
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_14391990 So then I would have said that there has been no increase in charge or business people to stop dealing with an attempt to come out in a way to be registered and called the last time to restore the power of being a white man know the importance of paying taxes It is a must that you must do or you will be able to be registered but the preparations is recognized when he has been recognized by the disease already our country and to recognize if it is a legitimate business here in the country I would look for medicine you can say that you have given birth to the colonies so they can make noise to be signed, there is a person. He has not been forced into his business Because even in the meaning of registering maybe this name of business The vehicle is also troubling with me Legal because there was no certain thing being called Mwaipopo enterprise can be able to be something that will be more important than in using their names to that. As I said that I would like to see when we look at something I advise the stand that for help the business and the meaning and continuing to borrow There is a point where the day should be released, there is a lot of time to help the community and business as a reason. Continuity, I have with others until now they are reduced the marks that after the growth, but the biggest one can be on the departments as we have not started from china. It can be able to identify their activities so it has been seeing it. This is because of it. And on the other side of the money Because we have brought you a few weeks. And the council depends on revenue from where the citizens have benefited from crush Athumani near the end it will have benefited from the income by using licenses, there are testimonies who pay. In business that are open in a mission has been cut but closing the door to the inside I know That Achia has the ability of the citizens to go there to pay even if we took it, he said that there is a bad writing that we are required to look for it is one but the bigger people can pay for their homes But if they will not have a business income, it will be so long as I talked to the noise every day so as to grow up now when we go so much as business is understood to Cuba even the great benefit is that the market is able to go to borrow to get them on any loan issue.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_46997246 However, I asked me today we are guys. They met congratulations for a dose, it needs to be. Research time to read if he refuses the attention he is putting in detail because not being born, he has said that charts the fare means savings in among the construction and that after. Research Character and asks about it Ehr now I went to himself together at work. They will reduce We should work And indeed If you pass it, I answer the blood coming from the way you do not like to love you, but you are a Boxer, eight days a service you like to get away with ono lt; hes tgt; the civilization and who created a lords to collaborate a little more. Today I want to talk about one of the women's behavior I wonder the beloved country has the enemies but coming from Mary to support it seems that you love you, you love you, you love you, you love you. These days the men love your wife and it is a god. Let this guy say that this tendency to be exposed first, let us start a secret to be quoted mm before a woman does not come to me and you can't even talk even to call a man to be in-law while humility has told me a sister-in-law for him who were sending me for him and you can't tell people to meet. When the prisoners and re-prisoners about absurt was surprised by the mother to take him just so that the guys and the mother you can see now that Vocha people are produced in plenty to go back to pass it as a mother who is oppressed is asking the citizens to tell their son to the strike. Give a brother After the vote is very different in the south and what is being hit in the south. A journey When things start in the beginning, he shows a bit of naked as someone as the day goes. A place where you come to walk, not this man and the younger now that he has come to there or maybe this brother should be overnight here, that is there is no even water drinking, the market is a butter that looks like what things start. No things we won't be able to even walk the girl to get drinking water No one does not remember why the beginning of burning this has changed completely. In addition to what best I will tell why where I want to be exposed? You wish you like with the preparations and the preparations. Now when I meet with what a friend met with a friend and her mother, while at home there is problems he tells his wife, who let me take a little while at home there are problems that you don't take a little while at home there are problems that you know that there is no problem, there is no one who will accept that there is no problem if there is no problem, there is no one who will accept that there is no shortage. I have to tell you but that woman for them in the provision of support by now at home, there are still these problems, you are supposed to do it for now, but now it has shown that he does not have money here to sell I will start with the plot is sold. Take me to Marko and his mother, you find a woman like something that itself is a reader, I want the one and the verification unit which has been called here every month we know the black person there has been a secret that would be done because they hold the mother where we are in the ten tribe you will get and all Christians have certain reasons for example of the mbuu system to take a mm.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25853684 Welcome to the sufficient magazine and I don't want this today to look at the small cotton sector where we will bring together with various stakeholders of this sector who together are trying to come up with answers to the questions of various challenges facing the evidence sector, I can be the second in a foreign currency. On behalf of all those who will participate to make sure there is an average while inviting them in the third visible Journal. The stakeholders of the small cotton sector gathered so as to come together with the answers of the challenges facing the sector It is at the conference that took place in Dar es Salaam city, including the heads of the heads of districts, farmers processors of cotton board to make business and sponsors of various programs of cotton farming. Nearly twenty years ago the cotton farming was used as one of the major revenue sources to the residents of the lake region and other parts of the country. Two farmers were raped in hope of farming as a better light in their future Like this, it went hand in hand with the start of the production of clothes and different products that come from cotton. It is estimated that more than one million and five hundred thousand people out of one hundred and eight hundred thousand, nine hundred and nine hundred thousand shillings were benefited from two including food digestion, producers of clothes and cooking oil. In one hundred and ninety six hundred and ninety minutes got into the open market for the hopes of improving more in the whole issue of production The cotton board started to witness the conflict that is closely caused by politics and the tension of power within the political parties and Putin in general In accordance with the agricultural law of the contract to be operated on major milk like cotton coffee, tea tobacco and sugarcane, however, the contract of the contract we have not defended the big sanctions for the crops as the sun first takes. Along the conference of the stakeholders of the small cotton sector that took place in Dar es Salaam city, minister of agriculture, food and corporate in the government of the United Republic of Tanzania, Engineer Christopher Chiza will speak about the farming of the contract Mi has said that farming for a contract as agriculture is not bad. What is needed is, you know that I have passed away in my conversation there that any development process will be addressed. That starting the farming of a contract, there are things that we expect to be on the contract is between the person's kulu. He has been cheated They scary Now, more importantly, what is needed is all of them to be done for example The contracts must be in the language that both of them understand what is scared, how will we get money Halo The only one she gave you must be honest to the sir, the end of the day I will have to take a must be what is legal. If you look at the system is good Because you can enable farmers to get input for what we need sa Mi my thoughts that I believe names It is to look at what matters that are in the farming of the contract He has not been pleased with the farmers we have reversed more than to say the procedure of a contract from people here in the world because we implemented well, we will enable farmers to get loans And then these others provide loans Giving loans, we must enable them to get their money that they were given now, that is the challenges that are there. It is stated that the small cotton sector in the country has the ability to empowering the cotton farmers in a pit of poverty if the government in collaboration with other stakeholders will help to help the existence of a contract to resolve the challenges facing the agriculture. The farming of the contract first is not that those pictures will not be made in trial for three years in a row If you accept what it deserves and that's six reasons They decided to Bariadi tribes and that money because it deserves to see the whole country When there is a problem here on its implementation, there are some of the stakeholders who have different goals and aimed at others who are not faithful who failed integrity but agriculture of the contract is the only way that he will kill six cotton will be ordered by the farmer to raise the name and names in the meaning of those with industries that will be ordered by the farmer. He has been found and buyers will get the cotton board to buy so that they are required to work on the night don't get cotton to sell and eventually be able to sell and also the district councils will get the taxes that the tax of the produce is paid sex. That farming of the contract, in my opinion, you will know that it will be able to save the farmer. We've got a great opportunity for the first time we started in bed the groups will be better than we are told everyone has joined the group because first I think. Thirty and two hundred people. So on me the sides that you know in that class has four divisions but when the wards in the Division we can be better in different wards so every village, we have taken a big step in every thirty group who is himself Sango we met. What are the fruits to see the sun will be given so the last day are good people who are growing even if they got the last day you are ready to come up to say we got a lot of money and also a company that has scared the drugs that we will see. So We tell its citizens that we pray for him. To get into the market early so that citizens should not be able to go to search for another one, so it helps the citizens to take money while so as to sell the time so we can't live at a time when I think he will get our minerals that is why I see charcoal and eight percent from the year up to this year, your body then there are two thousand dollars a year, we can be able to link between ten and seven million tons that should be handled according to. The Kanumba was Western. Four hundred grams will drop down in one acre A new system without seeing three When we had the expectations we had, according to the status of both sides, there is insulting insults that are against them. They may not be able to shut down the fire is six seven lions. It was bought an average which would probably produce. What happens from five hundred to look for him One of us, we have seen is because you know we have been suffering from the price has been not good. And then produce depending on one acre, I will be better than what it is doing, it is doing it will be above us We would like to look for Europe and groups. The devil to go there is our third hope I have been doing well and among them are youths who have taken the youth Brother, we are tired of Kariakoo in the special commission and we know from the style by going to Singida. The youth who deserves to be sold for that house more than two hundred hectares and ninety minutes in Mbutu bridge, the village of bukama have been told me I am saying the youth who benefited from walking and it is surprising that the meetings has brought up so much that we are doing to be his death accident. The agricultural transport of refuse that is a very big problem because there are people who came to there. Ehr goes to the middle and confused. There is Spokespersons for real speed Because they grow their farm on the farm. You can't talk about someone that is on the farm about this time of talking on the topic. Because you are supposed to be in a group quickly, which on Monday Therefore, we are striving so much in bringing a big problem is that it is not that the farming is not enough to inform you here to make a good number of change, like five books as it is known that cotton gold are sold and even the service will rise So here as the other one that has ever seen in the Riders. Five days than coffee But it seems that it seems to be misleading. The real intent of the government sometimes translated If you will be released Agriculture of the contract is good because you are sure of selling your produce and the price that is at the same time because I go with the price in the world market to know that the past was you don't know because he said, we will communicate with him and the contract that Bana want to sell our cotton on the price in the world market and information to the public maybe we wait for us. A date, then we shall begin to do about buying so that we will look for its beauty benefits for the contract. I started when I was a lot of land without a contract. I was in the past when we entered the farming of the first contract we would know I had been cheated. That is what you need First, it was a lot of a lot of farm after getting into the farming of a contract after making sure everything I bought at ten and six but in the past, it must be two depending on the ability of a contract with my fellow farmers because agriculture of the contract had a lot of need and education get a lot through our sponsors who visit them. That is until now the farmers had a need for farming for a contract that is the other than it means that someone gets benefits through the loans. And the destruction is also one of the challenges in the farming of cotton industries, which is used including farming and control of non-political parties. And maybe
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_69385835 The competition of searching for the winners of that game the hard and actual paper has started today in Morogoro town to take three days a report by Esther zelyina to sell them. The Beer Manager of the journey to sponsor the competition Oscar Shelukindo together with the national leaders of that game, the chairman focused on him and the assistant secretary of the old, Mgonja has said the aim of the competition is to recognize the best players and grow the level of that game but I believe that the goal of the competition is to recognize the best players and to grow the level of that game but I believe that the goal of the competition is to recognize the best players and to grow the level of that game but I believe that the goal of the competition is to recognize the best players and to grow the level of that game but I believe that the goal of the competition is to recognize the best players and to grow the level of that game but I believe that the goal of the competition is to recognize the best players and to grow the level of that game but I believe that the goal of the competition is to recognize the best players and to grow the level of that game but I believe that the goal of the competition is to recognize the best players and to grow the level of that game but I believe that the goal of the competition is to recognize the best players and to grow the level of that game but I believe that the goal of the competition is to recognize the best players and to grow the level of that game but I believe that the Ehr but in particular, we will see music if they will see music will be given a t-shirt if they will be different things there will be a promotion. The scene and Teams that will participate are thirty-four teams Between thirty and fourth What's going? Ten and one women Kilimanjaro themselves in prison is bringing you four teams Basically the gifts we are working for the analysis after we have done their income You wouldn't be where we go. To participate and which we have also got a new song at the same time, the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager has launched a big campaign called hundred percent of the Bongo Flavor, with a slogan of celebrating our work that will be run for six months in a row and I know until the last time George Kavati has said the campaign aims to encourage Tanzanians to be proud of various Tanzanian things such as music and sports as a continuation of the campaign to promote Tanzania, which took place last year during the commemoration of fifty years of independence. Below are the campaigns that I have written for us to talk to our time Just before a long time From now up to the twelve month and continued, according to Kavati, the campaign has used the Simba and Yanga's difficulty that they have been sponsored by the beer that had been sponsored by the beer.
query1644 crisis solution answer
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41560018 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Passengers will be clear to get the yellow fever vaccine, especially those who travel outside those with the yellow fever vaccine are required to come out in various centers set by the ministry of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children for the purpose of getting the vaccine together with changing their cards because these cards have been improved and have a secret marks that the international countries have the ability to read our points. And the member of parliament for Ilala region Mhe.Mussa Zungu has congratulated the ministry of health, community development, gender, elderly and children by changing these new cards by avoiding many certificates that were bought in the street without getting vaccination services, therefore he has appealed to the citizens to make sure they get the vaccine because it was very dangerous especially those countries with yellow fever and thus getting certificates that are legal, the ministry of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children have added time to change the old certificates until the end of this month and after that old certificates will not be recognized again. Na.Catherine, WAMW Dodoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84123080 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The players not to go to register "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Vicky Kimaro "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 19 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The round of the Premier League, the first step has ended recently and for now the teams are in the process of making adjustments to their squads, for the second round of the league that was planned to officially start early next month. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Already some clubs have already started calling for the signatures of new players for the purpose of strengthening their squads for different goals. The giants Simba, Yanga and Azam are fighting for the championship, there are teams like Mbao, Water Water, African Lyon and others will go to the country to drop the bridge. Most importantly, the players are required to be careful, not to blame them in their decisions of burning ink in various teams. Players should ask the heads to make a decision by being convinced, a supporter of the club and the club leaders, especially old when they voted for their neck. The players, especially the upcoming stars must evaluate their ability and the club they want to go to play for them if they are against them and it will be able to help them develop their talents or get in and finally be the veterans at a small age. The period of registration is the season of yields not to the players, but even the aides and coaches of the club, it will look for that registration to be done with professionalism of the high level for the benefit of both sides in the meaning of players and the concerned club, so as to end Tanzania's soccer. We will not expect the folks that have occurred in the big registration window, when Hassan Kessy serving Yanga is still in a contract with Simba, a decision that until today you know him while he doesn't know the fate of his case which Simba have wanted to be paid 600 million shillings. The first round we have witnessed some of the players while signing up due to cheating and causing them to be punished by the committee of law and dignity of players of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF). The problem of cheating to the players has been seen to be sustainable in Tanzania, although for a certain period, it has reached especially in the premier league but in the high levels of cheating has been huge and complaints have been many. In the premier league, the issue of players to register two teams has been a normal thing and has already taken them to the ears of soccer stakeholders because of that case repeatedly. All the time the registration of controversy in the premier league even if it is contributor usually is involved in the old Simba and Yanga clubs. All cases that have shaken the media here in the country will involve the clubs themselves by themselves or themselves by other clubs where they are for its player. We have also witnessed the players being banned for a lot of mistakes like that, that were ever done by players in the past and given punishment by TFF, but the issue is seen to be a difficult thing for the players. When I know, the greed of money, the us of the law have been passing some of the players and find themselves getting into a crisis that is contributor and others have threatened to be banned from being involved in soccer for a period of six months to one year. The Association of players of Tanzania Football Association (Souza), although it does not involve the punishment but it is believed that there is a time it is good for the punishment to be given so as to stop the behavior of cheating and building discipline in the soccer game. "If we will defend this issue because we will be promoting electoral fraud, often we refuse a player to be given a great punishment for being locked up or one year because we believe that it has a great impact because a player is expecting to play as its employment, but in such cases we must build discipline in our players to discover and respect the law," says the secretary general of Simeone, Mussa Kisoki. Kisoki said it has come now during the players to register in their party so that they can help them manage their contracts and not to wait until they walk to the conflict with their clubs. They must participate in the players of the Premier League and the First Division League on their rights and responsibilities, their freedom in registration issues and other important things that bring mistakes to players especially in contracts and registration. The players should be keen in getting contracts and if it will be possible to have the lawyers of supervision. I believe things are mixed with a lot of attention to both sides of the leaders and the club coaches it is clear we can witness the premier league more than the first one that ended with Simba to sit at the peak with 35 points. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_80802732 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Civil servants to transfer the benefits "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Angela Semaya, Dodoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 07 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The laws of pension payments in the social security fund have been suspended and now every public servant who will want to relocate its benefits to another fund or transferring jobs he can do so. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The minister in the country, the office of the prime minister, policy, parliament, labor, employment, youth and disability, Jenista Mgshifted, said in parliament yesterday that the public servant who will want to relocate its benefits is allowed in accordance with the law and even if he will decide to relocate employment. He said that the retired one that wants to continue contributing to the pension fund can go to talk to the fund and continue getting services while out of employment without disturbance. Mhagama was responding to a question by the member of parliament of Korogwe town, Mary Chatanda (CCM) who asked the government has a strategy to remove the retired problems since the PSPF Fund has been delaying development for retirees. In his response, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Ashanjust Kijaji, said in dealing with the problems of paying the benefits, the government in the period of January to August this year, has been able to pay 511.86 billion shillings which is the arrears of contributions for the employer. He said in that period also, the government has paid a total of 83.25 billion shillings as payment of debt before the year 1999 together with paying the arrears of claims of retirees and other benefits offered by the fund. Japanese has said in the period of January, this year to July 2016, the PSPF Fund has paid a monthly pension fund for 117.33 billion shillings and now the fund continues to pay the arrears of benefits for new retirees and other benefits. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_86575374 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Indeed, we need this law Nov 22, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the third page of this newspaper we have published news about the meeting of leaders of the Anti-Corruption Agencies (EAAACA), which began on Monday this week in Mwanza town. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Different leaders have spoken at the meeting, providing recommendations and advice to improve the fight against corruption in the East African countries. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Among the speakers include the deputy chairperson of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Committee (EACC), Irene Keino. Among other things, Keino has advised Tanzania to have a special law of monitoring of its stolen resources, that is Asset Tracking Act. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Despite the existence of the law to protect witnesses, we think it is the right time in Tanzania to have a law of that way, that is independent and not to put that section within another law. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There are several important reasons for supporting the advice and the biggest one is the fact that our economy as a nation continues to open up the day up to the day, the challenges of controlling our economic system is also growing as the coming years. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Business opportunities in the country are expected to open up while the speed of the resources of the country is rising. Those challenges and others that are not easy to list here, it is clear that they will have loopholes of corruption. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Inside the list of economic growth and the speed of economic growth, theft and corruption of resources is a clear threat. In that sense, it is important now to have a law of that way, although the experience has proven that, in Tanzania, the basic problem is not a law but it is the management of the law. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, in addition to recognizing that the basic problem is not a law but the management of the law, it is good to continue improving and even enact new laws for faith that, one day, the critics of these laws will come out. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We recognize that the fight against corruption and theft of the country's resources is a war that needs the use of all weapons as you can be found. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We have no intention of choosing weapons in the fight against corruption and corruption, and we do not have a willingness to choose what we use. It is true that the country needs a law of monitoring the resources that are robbed, the parliament and the government officials to think carefully this advice. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2725 chemist
query1521 seminar
query3636 private part genitalia
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_43615868 Twitter lt; unk, gt; And the riot police in the city not to ize the economy France fought against people who oppose the bill was passed by the small parliament takes. To allow people of same-sex marriage to have been angered by the move by the citizens to allow people to bust one to tell their children just after seeing and reveal that such acts are losing the real meaning of marriage Police were forced to use tear gas to disperse protesters are afraid of the ban Facing police Mangi and representatives of France are looking forward to voting In response to the bill of marriage of wise people in bitterness for the next month
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_97904645 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Arrests by ATM 243 of the NMB Bank "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. November 10, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The police force in Geita province, has succeeded to arrest two people with 243 cards of different people in Chato district, that are used to give money to the ATM of NMB Bank contrary to the law. Geita Police Commander, Leonard Paulo, told journalists in his office, that the incident happened the day before yesterday at 7 o'clock in the night in Kitela Village, Chato district. He named those suspects, Gidion Matiku (22) and Seleman Hassan (30), a resident of Chato and all the traders of the cereal shop together with construction equipment. "We are holding these people as we continue to investigate more investigations why they own all the ATM cards that were given by the NMB Bank they are working for because they have names of different customers, who are legitimate owners who are recognized by this bank and not them," said the commander. He said that the act of owning the bank's cards is against the law and that the army is still continuing with further investigation where the moment you have been completed, those suspects will be arraigned in court immediately. In another step, the army is holding two people to the residents of Restaurant village in Chato district, accused of killing him by sprayed swords to a resident of that village for being thought to be a conflict of farm. The police commander in Geita province, Leonard Paulo, named the suspects as fre.Marco Mathias (46) and fre.Boniphace Shija (33) all the residents of that village and that the incident happened the day before yesterday. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_68422504 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Zitto Kabwe has accused Chadema of corruption through LekaDutigite "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I'm sorry that in the state I had to make my mother get stuck in sewerage politics. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. LekaDutertite is owned by artists. Gombe Advisors is a non-profit company (Company Limited by guarantee) and does not have any business interests. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kigoma artists have worked with TANAPA and NSSF, the work that are known and exist. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Today, call for any NSSF employee to be heard of the work of those artists. In any way, this is an indication of lack of humanity because they said they know I have no financial benefits today or tomorrow for LekaDutigite and Gombe Advisors. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The period in which my mother is in critical condition, again a member of the main committee of their party, I am sorry I was given that. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There is no way of lack of humanity. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. By Zitto Kabwe "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_77324465 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The farming of Mtama "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Whten by sebastianmaresi "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mtama is a group of small seeds of cereal or cereal, which by the scientific name is known as (Sorgthat bicolor), it is a lot of crops all over the world for food and lishe.Mtama provides a lot of crops even in a situation that is not suitable for agriculture for other types of cereal crops. Mtama has a great ability to endure drought. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When Mtama can be used for blankets and be eaten as it is, run and used with snow, making drinks such as beer, get bread, and other types of folks. Mmea of millet has also been used for the sake of livestock of livestock such as hay fever and cabbage. Mtama is very well in an environment with an average of 400 millimeters and 700 millimeters of rain for a year. Millet has also violated the water levels, and you can be measured in places with many rains. Mtama is also the best part of the average temperature of 18  C, so as to be able to ota well, and an amount of 25-30  C to grow well. Mtama cannot allow the snow. Mtama can grow in all kinds of soil. In a large extent, it is the best way in the soil of a follow-up, but also in the soil which has a little amount of a mixture of newborn. When Mtama can't allow the squeeze on soil from pH 5.0-8.5, and is facing salt than it is maize. The types of millet in general there are more than 30 types of millet that protect themselves as food. Mtama is a good branch in summer. Therefore, it is wrong in the parts of Africa. In the past years, his agriculture was left often for maize because maize brings much more than acres. But at the time of drought, it is a loss of people to return to rudi in the farming of millet. The types of millet are different according to his colors, there is white, red, and woke up. The natural seeds are usually shaken by ease, but the harvest is usually poor compared to modern seeds. However, modern types that are produced at affordable prices are planted by following the regulations of better farming. Serena: It's a punch of woke up. This type is branch in the area with moderate rains and mature in a period of 110 days. This type usually stem cells and roots, where it can produce an amount of 3,000 kilograms for one hectares. Where are needed 5 kilograms of seeds for one hectares. This type has the ability to deal with the disease, flashing, and the bedroom of the leaves. Seredo: This is another kind of punk, and it is recommended to be cultivated in a 1,500-meter area from the sea. This type usually expanded after 71 days and they are mature in a 120 days period. This type is usually long, and it has the ability to produce 5000 kilograms for one hectares. It has the ability to deal with the disease, flags, path in leaves, and the bedroom of the leaves. Gadam: It works well in places where it is not a lot. In many countries, for example Kenya, this type of millet is used to make beer and also for food. But this kind of devastation of the leaves. Indeed and Wahi: These are two types of millet that are manufactured by the Ilonga Agricultural Research Center for growing trees in the plantations. The seeds have a yellow scarf in the lips. The two types of flour is suitable for cooking. The production of farm leaves the farm so as to make it easier to ease them. If the farm is educated by a tractor, it has to get to its own and if it has been prepared for a hog, the soil is supposed to be reduced to the amount of a tree in the lines without stopping, it needs 7 to 8 kilograms of hectares and tree planting, you need 8 kilograms to 10 hectares. A tree can rise in the haze before heavy rains, or when the rain starts or, while the rains are deployed. Detail: Planting in the dust CM 5.0 - 6.0; planting in soil with moisture CM 2.5 CM (CM) in the line and line with 20 CM between stem cells and stem cells; the area of Makame: Cm75x cm20 or CM 90 x cm30. Fertilizer: Different types of fertilizer and biogas are used to increase the soil of soil Samadi: It needs to be distributed on the farm and split down or put into the lines and confusion before planting. The proposed amount is 5-10 tons of hectares and to weko a month before planting. Fertilizers Kabla climbing: NGOP, 20: 20: 0, 23: 23: 0 at 20kg N and 20 kilograms P2O5 kilograms of eka, fwekus during planting and before planting seeds. Top dressing: 20 Per Cent of fertilizer of Urea CAN. Follow up the plants and make sure it is placed when there is enough moisture to make the fertilizers well Pure: It should be done twice. The first organizers to happen 2-3 after the seeds to ota. Drugs to kill the hype that can be used is Lasso or Gesaprim (before kuota) and 2,4 D (after kuota). Blowing up costs to be reached by 3-4 weeks after eating and dizziness when the soil has enough mouse to reduce the effects of plants. Destructive podes: (I) Nemona soccata) effects are from 7 to 30 days after the ota. Viluwiluwi eat inside the mea and caused signs of mousdies. The delay in planting is increasing the effects. (II) Vitaly (Stem borers Chilo partellus) Daly is a small flow in the pair. Viluwiluwi highlights: Fantic plants shows modies (hearts). Prevent the rise as soon as to pull out and burn the past decade, using the fantastic seeds of sprinkling of diseases such as the type of the Bulgock cells that are placed in plants in the age of 4 weeks to prevent "folding of seeds and cannabis (i) Sorgie midge (Contarina Wehicola) the effects are brought up by the magnitude of the seeds and centre of seeds and bringing the effects of drugs such as Endosulfan, Ambush, Marshal or Karate. The pest of insects in the storage warehouses is like bathroom and nondo. (I) Broad-maize (Sitophilus zeamais) and Bothilus - Sitophilus). Open and unwildly destroyed the seeds and make it not without any use. To prevent harvesting early it has been actively used to use storage stores with quality and which will pass the air well, clean up the story and put medicine for 6 weeks before harvesting. Medicine for drugs such as Actulic Super, Malathion or pyrethrum dust. The plane has a plane as it is going on, as well. Blocking the early seeds if it is mature as one in the nearest areas. You use the lines of torches such as ribbons, aluminum foils, the region. The cocktail of a cashtag to make a voice when a hashtag started harvesting time when a hashtag is to destroy the area of multiple jets. NB: Getting the magazine click here. Communications: 0754407774 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1921 Kagera natural disaster
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_33930237 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The general meeting in Simba on December 11 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 22 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The leadership of Simba Club has stopped a meeting of emergency members that will be held on December 11. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That meeting has been convened after the session of the executive committee of that club that took the day before yesterday. According to the spokesperson of Simba, Haji Manara, that meeting will take place at the police hall hall in Dar es Salaam city. He said the executive committee has given its blessings through the 22nd article of the Simba Constitution. "That meeting will be a continuation of the normal meeting that took place on July 31, 2016," said Manara. However, the report has not explained the agenda of that meeting, but it is alleged that it may be about improving the issue of the leadership of Simba and entered into the issue of investment. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_97234062 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The tour of McCain and Syria has killed the United Nations United Nations, Syria has complained to the United Nations (UN) after Senator John McCain, former French foreign minister Bernard Kouhani and other prominent people to enter the country without visas. Syrian Ambassador to UN Bashar Jaafari said in a letter to the National Security Council that, nations must take a "immediate step" against citizens in the country contrary to the law. Croatia's former Ambassador, David Galbraith, visited Syria in December, and former Kuwait lawyer, Walid al-Tablets'i, was mentioned for his 2013 visit, in a letter dated December 24. McCain visited Syria in May last year, and met rebels after crossing the border from Turkey. Jaafari said the Republican Senator met with leaders of the AlNusra Front, which the Security Council has listed as a terrorist group. And Kouhani traveled to Kurd areas north of Syria in November. Galbraith was accompanied by three political and American military officers during his visit last month while Walid al-Tablets'i saw the money and weapons to the rebels, and participated in clashes in September, the ambassador said. Syria wants UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and the Security Council "to demand the governments to take action immediately against its citizens in Syria against the law," he added. And AFP "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_97876296 Our holy month to consider for you to be able to have money but they are looking for life. Wrong with the children when they read in Marko seven, the captain that is in my son to marry my son, then there are also good whites that the preparations are ready to improve the first foundation in the family So second near finishing up everything the government at the end of the bad day in life using the treatment money was organized itself to a big group why you don't use it. Responsible for children Because he took them And let me look for the president? A school fees in school has been burnt in I agreed.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_77066652 Again, the mobile phone company of vodacom has given a donation of cereal and fruits for children with mental disabilities who are taken care of a good health center located in smoke. In Kilimanjaro Province got a read here. The donation was handed over to the management of the center and the director of vodacom northern region Mister Simon Chacha on behalf of the workers of vodacom Tanzania, where in smoke to participate in the Kilimanjaro Marathon, Mister Chacha has said the vodacom as a business company is responsible to help the community and use its services as returning to its profit lawler. When they get arrested He doesn't worry Completely Before the next season Amabad While crying for the children to get answers to the service, the main lawyer of the household says that station that is under the supervision of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, Tanzania and its various partners has ten branches and one in all wards of the municipality of smoke where more than two hundred children get services and training. Depending on the stakeholders to help die each other and we don't know how we can build the ability of involving the community, we involve different friends and also because we ask the prime minister of the name is under paying the ILO there we don't discriminate anyone because it does not benefit me to tell everyone that there does not believe Kalaba completely with children and communities there are Christians there is God, that's the child was born completely without caring about it is children. Grazing from the kitchen, we will be following the child to learn from their mouth, therefore it is a daily school that helps the child to be independent And help reduce the burden on the families who are calling for answers that you have been met. I pray for us Said the source: Problem
query1496 media English
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_76055599 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Source: Fitina North Mara III Dec 12, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The second part of this article that was published in this newspaper last Wednesday, explained the statements of various groups of people mentioned to contribute to a non-profit conflict between the North Mara Gold Mine (North Mara Gold Mine - NGrand) and residents of villages that are neighboring that mine. Those groups include the management of African Barrick Gold (ABG) that runs the mine, the residents of those villages, political leaders and journalists. Previously, in a special interview with Good Citizen, the district commissioner of Tarime, where it is mine, John Henjewele, who brought the finger to those groups saying that it is the source of that conflict due to putting their personal interests. However, after being questioned by this newspaper in different times, some people from those groups tried to avoid the blame and others confessed to contribute to that conflict. This third place and the last part, describes the recommendations that were given by different stakeholders about methods and procedures that can help solve the conflict and eventually improve relations and enable each side to benefit from the quarry at satisfactory level. The stakeholders suggesting the crisis Augustino Sasi, a resident of the village of Keith, which runs the NGrand, is proposing to have a partnership of sharing benefits that are derived from the mining of minerals in that mine. That, instead of an investor to pay compensation for various assets of the villagers that are taken to pave way for mine activities, to accept to pay the amount of money that they will agree every month until the mining will end in that area. "The leadership of the mine agreed to enter into partnerships with us villagers we are taken from the neighborhood to mine, meaning you have given me the amount of money we will agree every month or two months," says Sasi and continued: "The procedure will avoid the complaints that are currently including breaking down and break the compensation of our property. Therefore, the concrete solution to the current crisis is to enter into partnerships in order to each other side of the gold that is mined in this mine. " A resident of Tarime town, Samwel Magoiga, is proposing to have a procedure of that mine to ensure that every year you have the council of that district, the benefits of money driven by mining for the sake of costs of improving social services to the citizens. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Magoiga who is the Executive Director of the Tanzania House of Employment Creation - TAHEC), with its headquarters in Mwanza, insists: "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "That strategy will help to end the conflict between the two sides, and especially if the government will use those funds well by solving the problems of the residents of the villages that are neighboring that mine as it is not Tarime in general. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "You know what is happening now is that people organize symptoms (symptoms) of the disease (the conflict) instead of the cause of the disease. The investor is dealing with the crisis for its benefit, the government will deal with the conflict with the benefit of the investor, while a villager being put aside, that will not end the conflict. "On the other hand, the crisis is being held by politicians or not knowing, or by knowing. I think we should agree directly that the amount of income of mine be taken to the district council to be used to solve the problems of the citizens, "insists Magoiga and added:" I have emphasized that, because this problem affects the residents of the villages that are neighboring that mine, the government should have a procedure of cooperating with them closely in ensuring that mine is giving them their rights. "On the other hand, the ensuring that it helps the first villagers to also be a strong partnership with the investor, the government and villagers to transparency in issues concerning mine, to have a joint statement, but the largest villagers do not have their priorities. "Another, I heard that the mine wants to start underground mining (low-mining) so as to avoid using a high cost of paying compensation to citizens who are taken from the neighborhood and mine. I am saying that the technique will not help to end the conflict, instead it will continue to promote the current crisis. "So, I think villagers are given the first opportunity. Again I use this opportunity to urge the villagers to use this period of local government elections to choose good leaders with the will and commitment to help solve the conflict. " The journalist, the representative of awn newspaper in Tarime district, Igenga Mtatiro, says the concrete solution of the conflict is the implementation of the promises that were given by the investor of that mine to the villagers. "The first thing, the investor will implement contracts or agreements that he entered with villagers including building the Technical Training College (Veta) and giving them before December 31st, 2014. "It is also an investor to show small miners to get mining areas, modern equipment for extraction, and training on modern technology of driving mining and environmental conservation. This will help to end the conflict that is with the villagers will not have tensions against the investor in that mine. "He is also an investor to ensure that he will pay the public compensation for the time. But also leaders and employees of mine should have a procedure of visiting villagers, to listen to the challenges they are facing and cooperating with the government looking for solutions. "Another thing, the leaders of mine and the government should stop the tradition of marginalizing journalists in Tarime district and Mara province in general in encouraging investment and mining of minerals in that mine," said Mtatiro. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The District Commissioner of Tarime, Henjewele, has said that the step of removing villagers from the neighborhood and that mine is implemented effectively, it will help to eliminate the conflict between the two sides. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "The investor will implement his role in ensuring that both People live within a distance of 300 meters away from the mine are being treated. All the people living in the neighboring mine for that distance is supposed to pay compensation for their properties in order to protect themselves because of protecting the safety of their health, "says Henrik. On their part, the head of police of Kipolisi Tarime / Rorya, the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Benedicto Mambosasa and the lawyer of NGrand, Abel Yiga, say that the education of citizenship to the villagers about the issue of investment in mines can help solve the conflict. "The government is cooperating with politicians to work in educating villagers because those sides are being heard by the citizens. The education gives the citizens the importance and benefits of investment in their areas, "explains Yiga. "Citizens have the right to be educated on the importance of foreign investors in the country. It is good for those villagers to know that the investor is legal and the policy of our country is to encourage a good environment for foreign investors, "said Commander Mambosasa. Unlike other mines, NGrand was discovered in the middle of the people's residence, therefore, in order to break the health effects, it must relocate them to pave way for mining activities that was not harassed after paying the compensation of their various properties. However, there was a violation of regulations and procedures of paying compensation and transferred from the neighborhood and NGrand, a situation that sparked a conflict between the management of that mine and the villagers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The tensions are the cause of the acts of invasion, looting, and destruction of various property in the mine committed by some of the citizens, especially young people who are looking for livelihood for subsistence and their families. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Many times the guards of that mine in collaboration with the police have been forced to use a big force that involved tear gas and fire bullets to deal with people who are involved in that crime so as to cause murder among them. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That mine was privatization from the government of Tanzania to East Africa God Mine (AMGM), East Africa Gold Mine (EAGM) from Australia and Placer Dome from Canada between the year 2000 and 2006, before ABG also from Canada that has ownership for several years now. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "IT's "IT's
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_74519197 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Scholars support two terms "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Shadrack Sagati "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 08 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Some of the scholars on education issues, have supported the government's step of wanting all schools that provide a lot of education, to follow two years of studies on details that they make students get time to rest, but also give an opportunity for the government to implement its educational plans. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While speaking yesterday with this newspaper, the scholars said there are issues that are being done by the government even to private schools and gave an example of sports and secondary schools together with the examinations of the national exams. Professor Justin Galabawa of the University of Dar es Salaam said that the operators of the school in the country must agree with a two year education system which gives the student an opportunity to breathe. He said that a student is running for a long time in school like that period of three years, his productivity in the performance of examinations is poor. "It is good to have two seasons, this gives students a chance to breathing at home in the middle of that period and even when they return to school they are and Mori to read more," said the education expert. He said any education system in the world must follow the requirements of the government so as to give an opportunity if there are activities that are implemented by the government among those schools that will not be affected. "For example, there is a moment there is a moment there is a games of crashtag and Umiseta, this is a competition involving all government and non-government schools, how can it be done when other schools are blocked and others continue with studies? She asked. He said the decision by the government to want all schools to have two years is good, because even when the government is postponed something, if doing the Mock exams will involve all schools because all of them are made in one system. "I advise my fellow school owners to follow this procedure is good, not to end the government, these are leading the education system in the country," said Professor Galabawa who also owns Thomas More Machina Secondary School in Dar es Salaam city. And Professor of Engineering construction of the University of Dar es Salaam, Aloyce Mayo, who is also the director of Alpha Secondary School, said a two term system that has been set by the government is good for all schools that are educated. Professor Mayo said that two seasons which in the middle has a short break, and he is questioning, "I know why some of the owners are holding onto three years, I do not see if it has a lot of productivity different from this two." He said he is one of the leaders of private schools and through their union, they don't see the school problem having two seasons. He added that the problem has been there more to the owners of private schools that are the believers of three years. "It's possible for them to have basic reasons, but to me two years that has mid-term (a short break) is good for the running of the school," explained Professor Mayo. There have been news that there have been tension between the government together with some of the owners of private schools about the period of studies. The government has released a new document of the year 2015 which directs that all schools must have two seasons and a short break to each other. But private schools themselves have been paying three years on claims that it provides an opportunity for children to be home during rains and cold and also get affordable parents and guardians in issues of paying fees. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_56331368 When we put a god ahead of the mm, you have to come back to a mm, it is a must for you to come. When you start getting into the ground, if you find clothes a must. AHH above that we were given clothes to have to go there, when a mother even what he would be, I can even mi am the same and tell you the same but nowadays AHH have heard that business. And think about the first things of this right now second-hand. Respect, however, is not bad. Halo ehI think first to open this new Because I have to find someone who is doing clearly in the country to enter the country, it's getting the same price. Okay
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88423824 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yanga's lawmakers are supporting Simba "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Grace Mkojera "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 26 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The members of parliament of Yanga yesterday came from the rubble after emerging with a victory of 5-2 goals against the Simba counterparts in the game that took place at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The game together with the previous one of Bongo Flavor artists against Bongo movie, was special for the purpose of contributing to the victims of the earthquake in Kagera province. Previously, the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa launched the electronic tickets system to enter the National Stadium and said that you are well and you are supposed to continue being used. He said he is pleased with that system and you are supposed to be used in sports grounds, especially the national stadium so as to enable the team and the country to get more revenue. Majaliwa said that after using that system when he got to witness the match of members of parliament of Yanga and those of Simba who were preceded by the match of artists of Bongo movie and those of Bongo Flavor. In the netball game, the parliamentary team emerged with a victory of 15-14 goals against TBC, while Imperial Hango of the parliament scoring nine goals by Irene Elias of TBC scored 10 goals alone. On the side of soccer, the Bongo Flavor team won by 5-4 against Bongo movie after the teams drew 1-1 in the normal period of 90 minutes of the game. Yanga's members of parliament wrote a leading goal in the third minute by Sadifa Hamisi, while Mohamed Mchengerisa scored the second and third in the fifth minute. Omary Warren scored for Simba the first goal. Yanga scored the fourth and fifth goal in the 25th minute and 28 through Mwigulu Nchemba. The members of parliament of Simba wrote the second goal in the 39 minute through a penalty by Godfrey Mgimwa. Simba's parliamentarians' squad: William Given, Jaku Hunter, Hamad Masauni, Kaizer Makame, Omari ren, Godfrey Mgimwa, Paschal Haonga, Cosato Chumi, Hamis Kigwangala, Aziz Aboud and Sixtus Mapunda. Yanga's members of parliament: Hamidu Bobali, Venance Mwamoto, Gibson Meisechairperson, Mussa Sima, Ahmed Nguali, Anthony Mavunde, Sadifa Hamis, Ali King, Mohamed Mchengerisa, conservative Kikwete and Alex Ghanaian. The contest brought a total of 187 million shillings. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3564 planet
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_26612686 Ehhe AHH and forth to talk with you so much, Mercy, I don't even Mercy that he did not like that. These days don't talk about it But he is not in order to end the bad, Stella now and it is the fact that you don't like my mym Ok like there is a good pipeline. There is a good time to just wait and wait for him and ask him and what he went to home where he took this home where he got the preparations. Ehr Ohh is gone to a hit to let the game left unush has already received a serious time this time to let us know how to let us stop. Ehhe has got a good way to take a mym
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98136068 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Parents to fight in front of children is misconduct, although every community has its culture, I believe in every community there are no parents who see many people pick up and even reach throwing the fields in front of their children. Even if the parents are angry how it is not a civilization to start a slew, while making a lot of words in front of young children. It is possible today to see that it is a big problem, but any child who has lived as witnessing parents are fighting for a certain way in the growth of her child. The worst thing is that when even children with their marriages are found to feel fighting is normal culture, because they have lived seeing their mother being beaten and locked out of the house or the kitchen. These actions have also done some of the girls to hate their father and see them are innocent people. Nzugule, Philippines "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_77335838 To ask the title we talk to speak up words to say that with the authorities not going to get justice to an eight motorcycle drivers to visit them to meet him through the first one you know that if there is a controversy that is going on, you can't know who you do but alone at one time he was arrested and in surprisingly, I do not want to know who there is a lot of things that you take there now, you want to know who to defend the poor to defend his rights a father to bring a motorcycle to give us. It must How did you start as twice or three _ not Going to you when we call you still Matondo. In which he told them the sales documents. Mining Like Lema, very small on the side of the boat, I think the surprising thing is that the report is said that the motorcycle drivers were taken to the judge's court and they were charged a fine of the provision that one was asked at the peak of the season without being offered, but surprisingly, those things were to pay one even to get the views of Tanzanians brother I asked that when they heard the law Public service A believer To give time For me when I was left with what was being used, I say that there are people who sing it Earlier before that there are all to pave way for maintenance Big for small small to take them into power through forgiveness, three has learned.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_75372664 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. DR Lwaitama, was right to ask Precision Air to use the Swahili language to give instructions to two senior officials of the air travels have said Msafiri will not be forced to know the language used in the plane but the airline officers are the responsibility of ensuring that their client gets communication with the way he will understand. They have said that they were required to use even a sign. They have said that in East Africa, army officers should use either Swahili, English or French (the main languages of this region) to communicate with their customers, and impossible to use the sign. On the issue of Dr.Lwaitama, they said that the issue was about how to open an emergency door, why if they failed to tell him that Swahili was even in a sign they would have abandoned you than telling him if it is not in English from the seat?... you quote several sections of the Civil Aviation law .Source: Power Breakfast Clouds fm.My Take: DR. is right and a lot of institutions in Tanzania are still ignoring our cultures and to promote our colonial era! "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_31345384 Now it's not a question to question us Mym and even missed a book is very hard to read the book "lt; hes Twitter gt; it needs time I need things with time. Where is the match at the time and So not I had time to let me stop this time. A number of days Even it's hard to study in short summary now that eight people are lt; hes tgt; sa I'll show # lt; hes witt; when I think the book I think that one of the infants for the boss will bring that only mm AHH AHH AHH I'll tell you one book. AHH imagine I hear a person who is talking to ye SA about how it takes you, it is not why no one is not there to know what I heard. No mym as, I don't know what you've got what you've got to tell your Job yeah, the books you have got in my Sister now. Where is there. Read the book with me and I love to read What do you get down today same as the ini let's mi Twitter lt; hes a gt; how to think about what you want is not, I don't have anything right. We have lt; hes tgt; dark we take a book SA has got what you've got what you've got? We ended up something unfolded Stephen is what I saw something like something. At 1lt; hes tgt; a small book then I'll give you maybe then I'll see it and this time I don't have books I am in Natural I don't want to give you a call I read this time. Ati maybe you'll see you only to tell you just this time, but you've got another one, I see you tell me or tell me or tell me what he did. Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; perhaps Okay first no When there is a library, there is a library, there are those things So the books in the morning I will go and tell me ten and nine I see the identity. Okay then before the towns register reverse me about the Almighty kevoh nine AHH not I wanted because they know my baby.' Ehhe sa we went to then let's get your Eid and then you'll go to the archaebooks.
query1631 face visage earth world
query1635 paradise
query1634 port harbor
query1637 Al Bashir president
query1639 Ugandan person from Uganda
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_57777689 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. My husband has betrayed my aunt? I was married and we have two children. This time I have a third child. My husband when I gave me I got with a child born by another woman and I agreed to bring him up. The surprising thing is that the day before yesterday I went to him with another woman and I have cried and I want to leave. I request your advice. Through the SMS, if that is very difficult to decide. You and your husband already have two children and is expecting a third child. When you leave you that you will be able to raise those children without their father? As he explained only and that's not his behavior, try to speak with him as he responds about his act. Asking for forgiveness and guarantee you that he will never forgive me so as to maintain your marriage. It is wise to look for all tactics to resolve the problems before thinking of breaking the marriage. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_99597455 The schedule of the female circumcision "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It has been written by Mugini Jacob, Tarime "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 17 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The schedule of the season of GM that is expected to take place at the end of this year is attracted in Tarime District, Mara province. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tarime District Commissioner, Glorious Luoga has said that when he spoke at a special meeting that was organized by the Tanzania Civil Society Forum (CDF) through funding from the Foundation for Civil Society in Tarime town the day before yesterday. Luoga has urged all stakeholders to participate in eliminating the problem of GM in that district. "It's a shameful matter to see people provide a schedule for female genital mutilation. Every stakeholder fulfilling his responsibility, we will end the problem of female genital mutilation, "said Luoga in that meeting which was attended by religious leaders, traditional elders and government officials who are involved in the issues of child protection. He has said that he has ordered the police force to be in a state of caution in preventing the acts of GM and urged the citizens to give enough cooperation. "After getting reports that the schedule is out, we have done a session and we have collaborated with the traditional elders, but also I have directed the OCD to make sure that we are preventing the female children to be stolen," said Luoga. The Executive Director of CDF, Kremlin has used the opportunity to introduce a new project which aims to strengthen the protection of the girl child in three wards of Tarime district which are Turnbull, Bomani and Nyamisangura. The three-year project will be funded by the Foundation for Civil Society, according to Kremlin. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_23977440 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Barcelona star ampiku Ronaldo in the salary of Lionel Messi has become a soccer player who is paid a big salary in the world after accepting a new contract with the Barcelona club that will give him 2.4 billion shillings per year. The contract will ensure that the fourth winner of the best player in the world (Ballon d'Or), is crying with them at the Camp Nou until 2018. "FC Barcelona has reached an agreement with Today Messi about another contract that was added and that will put him at the Camp Nou for a long time," the Barcelona website explained. The agreement of that new contract has made Messi to beat Cristiano Ronaldo of Real Madrid, who is the one who has been paid the biggest wages in the world among those who are collecting 2.1 billion shillings each year. The star of PSG of France, Zlatan Ibrahimovic who was the second person who was in the second position is third receiving 1.8 billion shillings each year. Before the contract, Messi was the former holding the third position in wages of 1.6 billion. Although they did not announce the actual issues that was achieved in that agreement, the Spanish media reported that Messi 26, will play with the club up to more than 2018, while he also received another additional payment of stakes and bonus of estimated at 590 per year on his salary. Along with opposing Ronaldo's mistress among the defendants, Messi will hold 10th place on the Forbes list of the athletes that are the highest wages in the world "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84049099 Ashanti gets a defeat "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Rahel Pallangyo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 11 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ashanti United the day before yesterday brought a flavor to be scored after accepting a 1-0 defeat by Friends Rangers in the first league game group A that was played at the Karume Stadium in Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The end Rangers got their goal in the seventh minute through the mid-fielder from the mid-fielder, Mkwinda in a shot that followed the ball landing down and broke the line of a goal. After that goal Ashanti United tried to score but the stability of defenders and the goalkeeper of Friends Rangers was keen to remove all the dangers of their goal at their goal and to go for a break in front of 1-0. The second half every team made changes and made a game to be competitive while being accompanied by the noise from the fans of all sides that were celebrating. In the 65 minute Ashanti United got a penalty after Yahya Zaydi was pushed to the danger area and hitting himself but went to the ball outside. In addition to missing a penalty, Ashanti United had reduced the attacks and this journey in the 85 minute, the striker Rashid Shaban, without a goal while he and the goalkeeper of Friends Rangers by beating the ball outside. Speaking after the game ended, the Ashanti United coach, Maalim Saleh agreed to be defeated and said Friends Rangers were stormed because the game is similar to the abi of Ilala and Kinondoni. "I agree that I lost this game but now it is planning for the next game because we still have many games so that it cannot destroy our goals. In Tabora Province, Rhino Rangers scored against Mgambo JKT 1-0. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_55794716 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. To succeed economically will need more careful plans for today, dear reader. It is joy to get another time to learn together on various issues so that we can achieve success we will expect every day. Today we learn about different financial secrets as a continuation of a series of personal economy. There are several unanswered questions. There are some who wish to know the secret of money that will not be buried many. Some are unable to understand why some rich people are losing all their properties and be poor again. Goals is no success that is found without being preceded by goals. So as to get great success in life, it is important to know how to saving the goals that will bring you. These goals are supposed to be more than the results of work or daily activities. The farmer can have the intention of increasing the harvest or an employee who wants to be willing to lead the salary. Goals are required to be bigger than these things. For us, you want to go, use a few minutes think about what you want to fulfill your personal life. Regardless of your queries, you start to live your new life by making important changes now. Look and choose a better way to improve the mind and the body as well as those that are not required to change. Evaluate the kind of relationship that you want and the skills you want to learn. Take the necessary action in everything you thought you should leave it. This is one of the important steps to start the journey of life that you expect. This is an easy and important part. His intention is to give me a personal challenge, to win misconceptions and raise the enthusiasm of your dreams. First thought of goals is a thought later words. Life is the door of the sea that allows news, cases, reports and words. One story begins another. You are like the world as a satelist and you need a merger for this to happen. But he has the ability to produce 60,000 ideas a Day. Experts advise you to take one of the great influence and make preparations so that it can happen. Use the paper and pens to link the thoughts and words that goals before you see the results that you expect. One of the important things that you should consider when it comes to the success is the words that you tell you every time. Most of what we tell you regularly is what makes our lives maybe even without knowing. Life goes like that. Every mindset of your life will be done. Your thoughts are changing your future life. I believe there are things I always tell me almost every Day. You can also say that I will succeed my final exam, I am poor, I can't succeed, I am bad, agriculture cannot me, this year is hungry and so many others. That you are telling you regardless of there is no other person who is heard or you see that they do not mean in the normal state that makes your life and give you real results. Your mind is listening carefully to the ideas. Realize, everything you tell you happens in your daily life. It may not be today. Know you only know that the mind does not implement your orders to you, therefore it is wisdom to choose the thoughts that reflect your thoughts. Think about the failure or the health that would be like that. If you will tell you victory, your success will be done even in an environment that you depend on to complete your goals. Your words are growing up in mind in your mind. Your brain is always Going to have a higher level to implement what YOU're told. Once you look for a way to achieve that you were told. Let it reach a place to know the strength of the words that you tell you that they have a great ability to complete your goals and change your life. This is a law used by people with enthusiasm for development. Ugandans, scientists even leaders and politicians. Change your minds. When you check the words that you tell you many days of the past, you will discover that it has been done in a way that you expect. If there was a time I was told you are a poor and continued to be with them for a long time, I have no doubt that weakness is the same until now. Time and time I choose the good words of spreading herself every morning, day and evening or night. Do you make your goals succeed as it happened to other people. When you have a thought of something or something, it is good to you use the time to discuss with its range. It is best to sit for three hours to plan to do and stop at half an hour to get numerous benefits than planning for 10 minutes something he will implement for several weeks for a small profit. Your head is your life. Your hope is encouraged by your brain if you will learn how to use it. The brain is causing the ability to do a lot which in common mind will not be surprised. You have the opportunity to fulfill what you want to change your thoughts and will put the real plans without giving up on the process or be shaken by the challenges that will come up to the success of your dreams. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_68888056 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. NBS provides a note to rally statistics "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 08 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Analysts or statisticians involved in various research projects that are being coordinated by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) have been urged to have graduated at least a certificate of official statistics. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The report that was given by the executive director of the National Bureau of Statistics, Doctor Albina Chuwa said the requirements are in accordance with the Statistics Act and. 9 of the year 2015 that has given the authority to coordinate and supervise the collection of official statistics in the country. It said that the use of statistics. In addition, the report has stated that the training for official statistics are given by the East Africa Institute of Statistics "Eastern Africa Statistical Training Center (EASTC) which is in Changanyikeni in Dar es Salaam city. The National Bureau of Statistics has the responsibility of collecting, analyzing and spreading official statistics in the country according to the Statistics Act of the year 2015. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_14854927 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TRA collected 1.37 trillion shillings in September. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It has been written by goro Region. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 05 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has collected 1.37 trillion shillings in September this year and made money collected in the three months of the new financial year of 2016 / 2017 to 3.59 trillion. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam City, the Director of Services and Education, Richard Kayombo, said the goal that was scheduled to be collected in the month of September was 1.4 trillion. Kayombo said that for this financial year TRA has set a goal of collecting taxes of 15.1 trillion from its various sources so as to achieve the goals of the government in serving the citizens. "In Agpsti we used to collect a total of 1.13 trillion shillings and you will be able to see how we have reduced the collections of two months ago in July and August by attaining 1.37 trillion shillings," said Kayombo. He said the collection of government revenue is in line with educating citizens about their responsibility of paying the correct taxes and at the same time. The belongings of goods to the provinces are encouraged to claim the receipts (EFDs) when they buy products and that they are driving goods to avoid disruptions when they are required to show the receipt. In another step, the authority urged the cargo of cargo outside the country through the customs system of TANCIS every time to monitor the reports of their products so as to avoid any type of cheating. Kayombo said that the business person used the system of TANCIS, he can follow his burden easily and to know that all the burden of his cargo was reached, it is paying taxes and everything up to reach. "For those who buy vehicles are advised to get reports of taxes that they deserve to pay before the vehicles have not arrived so as to avoid complaints of any kind when their expectations," said Kayombo. Regarding the verification of the taxpayer identification number (TIN) has already been approved and given new certificates of 15,467 TIN since the start of that work in August this year. "Having remained nine days to end the verification exercise and the improvement of the news of the numbers of the taxpayer identification (TIN) in the taxes in Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar, already the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has been forced to give new certificates of 15,467 TIN," said Kayombo. The exercise of going on and the improvement of the TIN reports continues until October 15 this year at the authority's offices and urged the citizens with TIN to come out and make verification before the time that has never happened because after that time frame the TIN that will not be removed from the TIN system of TRA. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_66473575 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Some hope that they will get the answer some of the parents have a lot of hope that the teachers will finish their strike and return to the back in the classroom before the end of this week. The investigation that was done by the Kenyan news agency (KNA) in various bookshops and those of school uniforms in several cities, showed parents planning the lyrics to buy those products while they hope that things will be good in the next few days. According to the owner of the bookshop of Trishul Stationers, Mister Dodia Kiran, the number of customers who are coming into the area is increasing compared to another time last year, and that he expects the business to be good for this season. "The number of customers who we have increased so much compared to whom we got last year. Products of books and draws are the ones that are going in large numbers this time, "he said. And Kate "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_14932229 Ehr Kenyatta, a brush is a resident of here living in hope but lack of hospitals in the neighborhood is forcing him and more than twenty others with a problem if the latter would follow this service in the neighboring villages. If things are not well there is a lot of challenges that this period is able to confirm the years learn And meaning to save Crops and little medicine you will find that what is the moment the aid wants. There are a lot of complaints are the victim of AIDS, and are encouraged to get a bit of medicine. He was taken to him. It's not supposed to be three ways of money that you would like to go back behind the foundation that is found And the government Grounds together with other services they deserve to be that candidate or our employee of the department, I request I request a little to pay it. In actions, we are following up, there are Africans we do not want to read, we want to read a person in an act that is where we as an institution we are going to go and office will have two thousand resolutions and we talk to them, we will continue with them to set up five thousand resolutions not to keep going on time until the economy including the impact of young people are meeting the most popular game in America, he had a translators of this village to enable them to sustain themselves economically, maybe all four systems in the United States. Like the field that goes with you and you said that we will call them the pepper spray. Those people so that they can be able to do their lives to be better in their economy so as to have a week to get rid of poverty and recovery of their little life, Millard Memba, CHADEMA, especially the women Empowerment of Iran. The voice of life and he will not be on the line that allows it to be a price. Pay want to tell us if we can okay, you buy chicken you will build and stalls shall continue with you and help the people who will not have you. The sun is the needs Her every time and I took it to the mother's problem here the problem of water demanding that he has other plans to do life in detention. I think that we still don't have women to lack water, they will have enough time to do other economic activities and be able to sustain themselves with the aim and our aim is to look for projects such as rearing chicken to mend them so that they get income from the wave of poverty that has hit the nation as a whole Possibly in your village, the situation is difficult than here And what do you think that the changes are needed to be done. Certainly the changes are in your hands inspired by the knowledge you got about different places. A concrete plan that allows the foundation of development to be for one person, the family and the nation in general. Beko
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98053486 Farewell Mohamed Kingolile "Boxing Day" APR 09, 2015 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When I was a spokesman and finally the Secretary General of the Simba Club, there is no branch that I have been close as that of football and development. There were two main reasons, first, it was his closeness to my office and secondly the creativity that was with them. The closeness I speak is that most of them were doing their activities at the headquarters of Msimbazi Club in Dar es Salaam city. It was not easy to pass one day of work without meeting at least one member of the branch. The creativity I talk about is that of the branch to make things like calendar and photos that later they sell and get money to run their activities. It is in those working environment, then I met a person named Mohamed Kingolile popularly known as "Boxing Day" who died in the bus accident last week in Morogoro town when he and his colleagues in a way to Shinyanga province to watch the match between Simba and Kagera Sugar. Six members died in the jail. He is the former secretary of the branch and in more than one; the leader of that branch. Many Simba leaders, and other clubs here in the country, at the level of branches have died and I have never seen them to start. Today, I have been arrested for boxing for the reason to celebrate all the people of his own kind in front of justice without being known nationally, although they had a great contribution to the soccer game. Kingolile and his colleagues in the group, they were ensuring that they have arrived in the club from 12 and a half o'clock in the morning up to two o'clock in the morning for the purpose of winning the soccer game. This discussion was important for people who didn't go to watch the last match between Simba or they don't understand about the new news about the club. For workers in town who are forced to arrive in the city before their offices have not been opened, Msimbazi is "bold" to challenge him time before people go to their activities. Many people do not know but in the football and development group, there is someone where he is called Chinga due to that he is dating in the southern provinces of Tanzania but his colleagues have called Shafih Dauda. He has been given that name because of his ability to explain the game. I mean, there are people who give money so that he should go to watch the match on the field so that after the game, whether tomorrow or any day, he can explain to them not to go about what happened. If there is a new player that is signed by Simba and he has done exercises for one day and Chinga asked him to ask him only and he will know that if a player is good or bad. Boxing will be canceled without having financial ability, they were ready to travel at any cost to go anywhere where Simba plays. Many times arriving at the concerned region the same day of the match and turning back to Dar es Salaam just after the match. Boxing is one of the people that were ready to do anything to help Simba got victory. There are a lot of things to also seek a win that he was doing that for a special reason I won't mention in this article. Kingsile was residing in the front seat on the second side of the driver when they traveled. The goal was to be able to be heard easily when he wants to give a report while in the car but also in front of people who see then they know Boxing is going on. In the Tanzanian football that has not gone on big strategies for the announcement, the buses of fans is one of the inspiration that will announce this game. Even if someone had no plan to go to a mph, what more exciting stuff in the road makes people change ideas and come to the field. Always, I believe that people like Kingolile are the ones that do football fans to continue going to the field here in the country while in the neighboring country, the number is going down every day. I had to look at the Uganda Football Premier League match two years ago at the Mandela Stadium in Kampala, and I'm sorry to see that less than 400 people have gone to watch the match. If you check keenly, together with other factors mentioned including the strength of the English Premier League, you will discover that one of the reasons is that the country is not again with the Kingsile and the branches of clubs like Football and Development, Football and Development, Wekundu la Terminal, Yanga pipeline and others. The people doing this game is attractive, like Kingolile, Doctor Yamungu Kayandabila Morogoro and others, should be recognized as part of the people that should be respected. These are people whose lives have been given because of this game. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_51766135 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The monster "is a threat to the economy" and Hamisi NGOP is perhaps the economic situation in some of the areas of Likoni, the Mombasa county has reduced even further if the government will be unable to deal with the enge of criminals with weapons that is continuing to punch business people and residents in general every time. That situation is as a result of fear among business people as a result of the increase in the cases of the number of Voters and the looting of their properties and the criminals that enforce them in danger. According to one of the business people in socialism area, Shika Adabu Yako, whose name has been given because of security reasons, many businessmen in the area, are being forced to score their businesses early as they fear being attacked. "I'm a business person to sell cereal where in the previous days I was working up to three or ten hours a night, but in recent years I've got like a couple of hours," she explained. Five cases moreover, it is alleged that since the start of this year, the area has witnessed more than five cases where the robbers who are defense of dangerous weapons have been able to attack several shops and steal property together with money in Consolata, Vyemani, a baby together with socialism which is the latest incident that was witnessed. It is alleged that on Monday, around ten o'clock in the evening, three robbers who were on motorbike riders stormed one shop of selling cereal and disappearing with more than 100,000 shillings. Witnesses said those robbers who one of them had a gun of AK-47, arrived at the shop which had flooded customers and shot one in the air before getting inside and stealing. "We saw a motorcycle that had three people being fired near the door of the shop, we thought they were customers, but we heard the sound of a gun and then everyone is looking for them to get into order to save his soul," "he tells a woman who sell their potatoes near the shop. It is said that after the incident, those criminals went to their motorcycle and lost their condolences, while taking the police officers from our special police station for approximately 20 minutes to arrive at the scene despite having a two hundred steps from that area. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3054 EXAMPLE _OFpassenger aircraft
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_94077583 Do not try to abusing the child at the bottom of the day he will know one person to know three others and that is the words they will start listening to the words. However, I have never seen a brush 'Mabeste', I don't know if I don't know a lot of people with a mi I know that I told me that I would tell me that the Body would be, but I am so cool to you but I'm so cool to you that you are now going to fuel. Mym That's what I am not only one person you know Mym is a mom and we were so cool to see that it is. Mym America all of all the presidents did not fight no feedback even if they see they have stopped outside the house that tells us. We should talk to exhaust every person and then it will be another wall for age Another corrupt thing Another one below Mym that's the one to crush these normal things but went on to enter the country to enter me when he told me that he was going to go to the country. And recently? The situation he is used is not the one who died as I died when I was married to me, he told him.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_48660676 Now we are not surprised by the competition to eat or roast, which has taken place in the streets to find more information While speaking about the competition for the year water in the sea, the manager of Safari Lager Beer, Edith carried out a different electricity in the past years, it takes a place for Premium meat and to educate and add more professionalism about burning meat and to give our customers a better meat and that in a lot of cleaning and due to that it takes them and investigate animals in various bars that we go to the streets where every province will give them a chance to get a number of five schools to accept until he is going on in the finals where every province will give them a chance to get the winners. First, we will look at Cleaning the one Meat processing is robust This will be. Lessons we'll look at it should be read Third tails Against animals The animal Mym we'll look at how The use and mi usually eat eating meat is not everyone's treatment Mananasi with paperwork is not available for meat and joints, which is required for that to get the real understanding that he is involving the provinces of Mbeya province that gave them or hawaja I think the film of Stima sa Stephen and safe And
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_96428846 Halo the third from the three timber and five of the timber and we have seen five from the timber. I see you had the tomatoes that you are being sold to the tomatoes that you are sold to them. And the teeth are also coming to pass here they were selling one fifty and I haven't taken, he said, when I read it, I didn't know I can't give something to me and how many times it took it. Why Ehhe mym mym AHH would be a loss yesterday was even the one in the body of Nelson was ten mym ehhe visitors I saw Nelson okay to see that ten AHH had been selling fifty and I saw it is of something but he has said that he will bring another and I saw the mosques were selling and one of the very big seat. Little When that match may have many benefits, this will bring about the benefit of one big fifty, you know that I was two, I am saying that one kilograms is when I am one is Forty five Forty five mym, that's the same Chelsea I will take the loss to the AHH last year, I have brought a lot of attention and they have finished and finished building. Okay who is ready for a house you say I'm standing here, they are still making a fifty. Ohh each AHH is expensive. So, I have seen yesterday that has brought so many things today now. And mangoes Even if you don't end you still do not just make you just make you tell you, you don't know you are still talking now, he says that he does not continue to make a toilet then let us go on the house Ok, I hear you hear mym ehhe and ehler I hear. Ok as I listen to hear the mym mym halo talk, you will make it back to call it this morning Halo we now Tomorrow we will go to the market Tomorrow we will go and we will go to the market tomorrow we will go to the market. Ehit is it to prove that the person who accepts palm, such as mi simt When I'll show you I will go through, even when you are called even when I ask you, I'll tell you the same. Because I will buy vegetables in the onions and keep me up to the potatoes and fail to carry sa will have. Network is the one that showed halo we showed people they were selling it today halo people were selling how many were selling them today. How many times How many times you are now, but that would you know you don't give it, it doesn't give it not it does not give the marriage to the marriage they were selling how many of them were selling it for the four hundred and forth, but it can give it that it will bring coal it will bring development to it. Four hundred are the kind of kind of kind. Twitter lt; hes tgt; wealor Next month, I am out of the second month in the second month as I am out now saying I am out of the door ehhe halo Keeping me feel that you are in a house if you wanted to house the house to stand out because of the house no Network is out of a thousand. Ehhe is not to bring coal AT least, he would have caused coal. And in the second month it is not this time, it is the second month it will bring you the second month and it will bring you the same way you will be the same as if this is coming. How many times do it mean that coal is okay to tell me, I know I will bring the wedding I want first to cooking you, first cooking I want first to cooking. It's not that you will bring everything you don't need a phone and we are talking to Mister for the ten minutes not to say why you are talking about, so mm you eat what is so happy that you don't know my son Ehorg will end how many hours Ehr
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_80905537 Mym And don't make that phone because I have seen something that we try to tell me just to tell me the words have not come back then until we finish it, you know if he is halo mi tell me you know what it is. Since it has shown Credit ten thousand are not another one that will be known as it has been given Credit ten thousand Credit. Legend tell me You know now the phones are people with that must for my house to try or it is the truth when I see it. Ehit is the fact that we will take this round the game With halo the game
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_89813014 However, when I was with the entertainment that you will be sacked we continue with the program and we are each other and we will end up with it, we will start with the organization telling them what other people are watching the Tanzanians. Mym in Swahili: Or Tell me the beauty of Swahili is what do you want to learn more in Swahili. Why do I want to learn in Swahili? Now I want to learn the language here AHH isn't another, except English on Twitter lt; hes tgt; there is a student woman All of her son I'm in Kidata, but English as we see river and bring us the shape of messaging and flowers This is a tt; hes Twitter gt; the novel is a simple system One of the ones that do not know if you are very simple, you are also happy that you talk about something else people want to know if you don't have a question to the teachers. The architect of Swahili is Msome. Karume did not make it hard when signing up, we want me to start to remember the sarcasm that has shown me. You will communicate the benefits of the teachers, we don't ignore it, I have not been able to say it's bad if one person wanted to know more about Africa in East Africa We need to learn that those who wants to know how it will use it. It will not be encouraged to participate we have a church teachers just to apologize to the child to know that unlike most of the importance in daily life and lives of other people like this Chinese are protesting, then it is good for the people of our family and Swahili as many of the development and many people continue to use their language even the Chinese while this time of development of their own country, which is also Swahili in bringing development to why our language is white. So much even at the time the bed sheets of afrodera I am in Kibaha secondary school, Walter from the University of Dar es Salaam together with Sharifa Selemani from tears, he has not paid the name of Jesus. Programs If you want to see you pink, you can kill me by foi Request and life The viewer of the new bottles at Victor Elia, who is also the Benin stop and looking at a good culture but also Swahili language is in which I am teaching I am a way used in different sectors in the next Saturday at 8 o'clock in the morning, we will be again in a period of wars and replica is Wednesday at 5 o'clock in the morning, on behalf of all who collaborated with me and called Flora scientana and a good form of programs like the island.
query1985 shadow shade
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_49810656 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mbeya City are now tarmac on the corner of Dec 27, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The dream of the residents of Mbeya City to see changes and important improvements in the infrastructure sector, it has finally been fulfilled after the completion of one of the roads that are ongoing at the moment in that town. The most important road that was completed recently, is the Airport- Samora, which serves residents of Ice area, or Airport, as it is known for the majority, which is complete with a tarmac. However, together with that road to be completed and therefore easing travel communication between those areas, the fear that the citizens are about the accident. "And we now have people after listening to the tarmac roads. In fact, it's like I dream as well, it will help to transport our crops from farms. We are producing Mbeya City for vegetables and fruits, "says a resident of Swaya town after the road was placed on a tarmac class on Saturday last week. Swaya town is on the outskirts of Mbeya city, and it is popular for vegetables, their main market in the middle of the city, and therefore for the citizens of that area to their importance is transportation of their produce easily and faster. Apart from the transportation of food production from Swaya Ward, the completion of that road is a great comfort to the students studying in Samora Secondary School who were forced to walk on foot by approximately two kilometers per day due to lack of transport between the Mafiat station and in the school where the new road is threatening. That road of 1.24 kilometers, known as Airport- Samora Road, is part of the roads with a length of 28 kilometers that are based in the construction of the roads of that city at a tarmac level that started in November last year and is expected to be completed in June next year. The adviser from Techniplan SpA- Itali, M. Haq, says he is satisfied with the quality of work that was shown by the company that builds the road of CICO China. He says the level of quality and efficiency of the work they showed technicians at the construction of that road is hoping for the work to be completed at the time set and on the quality they agreed on the contract. The view of that expert is similar to the citizens of Mbeya town who explained openly being satisfied with the quality of that road by looking at only, with some of the engineers from different cities that are in that project in the country, they noted that the level has confirmed the control of the tender for some of the perpetrators saving famous as "ten percent." "Here there is no" ten percent, "that is why even the president of the company has come, again with his wife, it has proven" ten percent "that the contractors, not less than 40 percent of all the work payments, that is why they are paying for them," says one engineer from one of the cities in the country. According to the acting secretary general, the Office of the Prime Minister (Education), Tuesday Sagini, the councils of all the cities in the country, seven municipal councils and the headquarters of Dodoma (CDA), benefit from the plan of improving towns in the country that is being implemented by funds from the World Bank (WB). According to Sagini, the program will cost more than 200 billion shillings, it is about the construction of road infrastructure, markets, madampo, buses and improving the environment. He says together with other things, that the implementation of those projects are different from depending on the needs of every city and the municipality. Those roads are a great comfort to the residents of Mbeya City and that province in general, where now they are supporting this year 2012 with three major projects of pride, because of Songwe International Airport, Mwanjelwa is and tarmac roads that are ongoing in the city. The completion of the Airport in Samora, makes it open to the hopes of the residents of that town who previously bought up, to the extent that it was not surprising to find themselves on the village's legitimacy of their city's status, the main reason being to see things going well like they had expected, and especially when they were compared to the years before promotion. It is on the basis, some of those citizens in their village, they are not aware of the government of President Jakaya Kikwete for good development activities that will implement in Mbeya province, and especially the improvement of road infrastructure in that city. The Songwe Airport together with Mwanjelwa is expected to be launched at any time from now, while the construction of tarmac roads in that town will be ongoing but some of its will be completed ready to reach June next year, having a length of 28 kilometers. Since December 13th this year, Songwe Airport started being used, and according to the manager of the stadium, Valentino Kadeha, the only thing expected is the official launch that is expected to be done by President Kikwete. However, construction is only one thing in strengthening the road infrastructure in the city, the foundation is its protection, something that is a big problem, not to Mbeya City alone but for the whole nation. According to the Director of Mbeya City, Juma Iddi, the preparations have taken place about the care of those roads, including meeting with the leaders of the ward and the streets and explain to their responsibility in overseeing the care of those roads, including a careless waste, where the city will ensure that waste more than "maguba" that are in the road, and that even the citizens have been educated already. "Citizens must know that these funds (used to improve the infrastructure of Mbeya City) is a loan from the World Bank, so we will come to pay," said Iddi. In this issue of conserving the infrastructure of community services, the acting secretary general, Sagini, has ordered local government authorities in the country to supervise the small laws that are available on environmental cleanliness so as to protect the road in the country which he says cost a lot of money. In addition to the construction of road infrastructure, the program of improving Mbeya City (face lifting) is also about the construction of the main bus station of passengers and cargo in the Nane Nane area, road lights and the waste water (land fill). The roads that are being built in money from the World Bank were divided into two phases. The first phase will involve 13.2 kilometers on the road starts in Sae through the electricity station of TANESCO to the University of Theater Kisanji (TEKU) together with the Airport through Jacaranda to the fuel station in the Forest. Other roads in that phase is that Commissioner Road which begins at the Uhuru Stadium to Weru Garden to Uzbelow, block T starts to Kabwe heading to the Church of KKKT Luanda, up to SIDO and Oil Station Com Soweto, and the beginning of the Sea (TANESCO) to the Clinic of Ituha. The construction of the roads will also involve the gutter of water and small bridges of churches, the purchase of two cars for the management of the road, one gas plant and another one of drawing a baby and stones that is known as bold. The second phase of the program will have 14.6 kilometers and it will involve the second road in the Source area and its bus station, road starts at CCM, it was asked to go to VETA until the slaughterhouse, before meeting with the ones that came to Ilemi and heading to the road to the Uyole area and the road of the Provincial Hospital starts at Yyo mini Super Market. The other in the second phase is together with the one starts at the new Forest which will collaborate with the Airport to Sae, Igaissance road starts at Mbeya- Tukuyu, to the Health Center Igwal Secondary School. It is in the second phase, where it will be built at the University of Passengers and goods in the Nane Nane area, a hole of waste in the meaning of DAMPs will be sung, the purchase of a balance of measuring weight in the hole of waste, three vehicles of waste (side loaders), four cars of throwing rubbish (skip Master), 109 containers of carrying the waste (skip bucket), three small cars and collecting 200 rubbish. According to the Director of Mbeya City, in the second phase they will also make pictures of the city's housing (satellite Image) which will help improve the collection of tax collection, and more will be released training to executives about the collection of revenue, and to put a computer system for operations of the council of that city. In that special program of improving the road infrastructure, Mbeya City cannot depend on the only money from the World Bank, but it will build eight kilometers to the tarmac that were using money from its revenue sources. The roads include the Kambarage starts at K's Hospital to the Parents of Meta Hospital and a small bus station of Meta, the road's library, all the roads going to City Park, the roads of Source: Tanu, the third and fourth, visitors Street and Nonde Street, a parking lot from the Sombrero Hotel and the area of City Pub and small bus stations. By using his money, Mbeya city will build ten kilometers of the road to the level of ChangKisarawe where in the year will be installed, whereby it will be the beginning of its sustainable plan of building ten kilometers for tarmac roads every year. Among the long-term concerns in the city of Mbeya, include lack of traffic lights where together with long-term noise from citizens were placed on one road in the city center. However, that problem will remain a history, because it is already a replacement project on the main road of Tanzania- Zambia is complete and lit up. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_12065827 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. What happened to the small elections give Judge Francis Nyalali on the grave on February 27, 1991, the second phase president, Ali Hassan Mwinyi was appointed the commission of the president, to do research and get answers about the requirements of Tanzania, if they want a multi-party system or remain in one party system. That commission led by the former chief justice of Tanzania, Francis Nyalali and worked for a whole year. February 17, 1992, President Mwinyi was given a report about the views and recommendations of the citizens about the system of many parties or one. The answers that were given by the commission of Judge Nyalali is that a multi-party system was rejected by the Tanzanian from 80 percent. In that sense, only 20 percent of them were already in multi-party politics. The youngest of them were not ready for a multi-party system not because they were not wearing me, except they were asked something that he did not know and did not have an understanding about its benefits. Nyalali Commission report shows that the introduction of a multi-political system in 1992, was done to force. A few people who saw the importance of multi-party politics in promoting democracy, they killed many who refused. The father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere was one of the people of the front line wanting the nation to move by one party system and inviting many political parties. Even CCM, they told the world Mwalimu Nyerere when he voted for many parties. In summary it is that Tanzania has been threatened to get into a multi-party system. However, many people don't know the importance of many political parties. The results of the small elections on January 22, this year, to make a small parliamentary elections in Dfaith, Zanzibar and 19 wards in Tanzania Mainland to fill the vacant positions from different reasons. The Revolutionary Party (CCM) got great success by winning the parliamentary seat Dfaith and seizing 19 wards, while the Party of Democracy and Development (Chadema) ended up one ward which is round, Bahati, Manyara. What happened in the small election is the one that has added Judge Nyalali worth while in the grave, because it has continued to show that the truth of the amount of 80 percent were not ready for a multi-party system. It has been 25 years since the commission of Judge Nyalali handed the President Mwinyi a report, also this is the 25th year since the system of many political parties that were allowed to allegiance to a few voices. In its 25th year, it seems clear that even the commission of Judge Nyalali would not have done its research now, perhaps the answers would have had, that only 20 percent of Tanzania only have many parties. The results of the elections in 19 wards of Tanzania Mainland, didn't even look at the results of the general elections of 2015 which for approximately 40 percent of Tanzania who voted for the opposition parties for the presidency and members of parliament. The results are not similar to the number of opposition members who are present at the moment which is 32 percent. The results of the small elections have shown CCM to win by 95.2 percent, while the opposition has carrying 4.8 percent. On that logic, 25 years after the establishment of a multi-political system, the situation is worse for the opposition parties. Venezuela seems to have a hard work to do towards the 2020 general elections than it was between 2010 to 2015. The commitment to the 25 years since Judge Nyalali handed the report of its commission, the results have shown that a big problem that puts it in the difficult state of opposition parties in the country is the absence of commitment to the system. The reason for a lack of commitment to a multi-political system is or people not to see the benefits of the system themselves or knowing then to suppress them deliberately so that it does not. Equally in the repeat election, it shows that people don't know the benefits of many parties and they are not ready to remember it. The real situation has shown that a multi-party system is not friendly to Tanzanian politics. Friendship is why many conflicts emerged during election times. The situation wasn't interesting in a small election. 19 wards and one province only have caused a big number, what would it happen if the elections would involve at least five constituencies? Dfaith in Zanzibar the situation was bad. There are complaints that agents of opposition parties, CUF, ACT-Wazalendo and Civilizations were removed from the supervisors of the elections in some stations. The reason for the occurrence is the claim of a number of defections such as the presence of two voters, the presence of voters whose credibility was unprecedented, the faces of other voters were not the same as pictures of the folks. The agents asked when they were released outside. A small elections in one province and 19 wards caused the tear gas to be used by other state forces. Various parts of the country was reported to be the existence of tension between the police and voters of different parties. There is still no understanding there is a problem and it does not concern the ordinary citizens alone. The improvement of the multi-political system is caused by more than two ways; brought up and received. The tradition of citizens depend on how the system itself is raised by the laws of the country. When a multi-party system seems to be an enemy of the dollar, then you will see the citizens fear from it for two hands. When it comes up to support the opposition parties it becomes the same as a dollar competitor, even if people do not like the extent of the opposition parties, they will be afraid. It is a must for opposition parties to be a friend of dollars and friendship with it. Leaders of opposition parties feel free to cooperate with state agencies according to the laws of the country and the agencies, the opposition are not enemies. The multi-political system is in order to make a democratic stadium in a wider election. That instead of one party to stop one candidate then it should be a vote of yes or no, there is an airport to choose. Instead of one party to stop two people then one who gets a lot of votes is the winner, there is a lot of parties that have stopped the candidates with different qualifications and then they say to the voters who are free to choose. A multi-party system was passed and threatened by the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania together with that of Zanzibar. Therefore, it is a system that is a must. Parties are supposed to enter the elections including the same power of participation. The conflict and violence is an indication of inequality. The absence of inequality between parties participate in the elections and the tension between the opposition parties, show the right not to be respected. People are increasing the overall results have shown that in 19 wards that performed in the small elections in Tanzania Mainland, the number of voters had reduced significantly, compared to it was in the general elections of 2015. One example is the Japanese ward, Dar es Salaam whose voters were reduced by more than two-thirds from the previous year. Such a situation has occurred in different areas that made the small elections. In the year 2015, the voters were 16,290 and the elections of January 22, this year, who voted for 5,274 votes. If you took a total of 16,290 as 100 percent, then those who voted for this year is 32.4 percent, in that sense, 67.6 percent of those voted for the 2015 general elections, did not vote last weekend. Together with the parties of CCM, Chadema, ACT Wazalendo and CUF seem to have a good campaign and to encourage citizens, still people do not come out in a good number. Voters have reduced instead of increasing. The decrease in the number of voters in its translations are people to cut up, that they do not have their expectations in voting boxes. When citizens stop voting is a scary thing. Even whoever wins is supposed to wonder the extent of his legitimacy if he has won by a small number of voters. Luqman Maloto is a journalist, analyst and social adviser, politics and art. It is the owner of a web site, available on Twitter. Luqmanmaloto.com "But I'm not Going to do it. "IT's "IT's "IT's
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_78943311 Ehr Yeah, it carries only a fund to put stones and put up a fund that allows you to get inside you from the way from halo there is no mym But I am happy about the fare we saw the fund. Ehr He went to being taken to a good people in Nairobi. Mym equal to my grandmm. Because of the tweet, sir, the money has been stolen from the governor, Mister ehI am saying I was peaceful to be the governor a day we should not be a policeman the night for the police. I could not understand what they say. So on the Westgate attack, my brother we saw the vehicle saw the same when the vehicle asked the work from inside, I was carrying out what they had already died.
query4344 fertilize apply nutrients soil ground
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_31661828 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government uses 435 billion to implement the projects of taking the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), the government to use 435 billion to implement the projects of taking the rural electricity as the implementation of the goals to ensure every Tanzanian is supposed to have that energy so as to grow the economy and expand the scope of production. That statement was made today in Dar es Salaam city by the executive director of the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) Doctor. Lutsenko at the time of the meeting with the press that aimed at explaining the steps that was reached in implementing various projects of taking electricity to the village. While explaining about the number of villages that are close to this year, he has said that 5200 villages have been given electricity equivalent to 36 percent of all villages that are in the country which are approximately 15,000. On the side of the amount of money that were given when the agency is established is 10 billion where they have been added to the year up to the year so as to avail that service to the Tanzanians that are many more. Speaking about the districts that benefited from the first phase, it was mentioned to be Uyui, Kilolo and Bahi, where for now the aim is to avail that service to all citizens. On his side, the manager of Rural Energy Agency Mister. Elineema Mkumbo has called on Tanzanians to use the opportunity for electricity connection at a cost of 27,000 shillings only to ensure that many Tanzanians are having that energy. REA has been giving priority to the community service as a school, which was done by the water wells by using solar which are worth one of the projects being implemented by the agency. Sent by Frank Mvungi - details "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_48056647 The two federation council of soccer parties in the East and Central African countries of CECAFA and the Football Federation in the country have set their stand that now they should support him. Whatever the image of FIFA's political stance is now that they will support for many African countries to support Blatter for therefore, he said that they will be ready and that he will announce the intention of continuing is that Blatter is the only president. He added intent The main aim of developing African soccer and there are issues that would be held as they are claiming they want to listen to the president of CECAFA, Doctor Tenga, father and amali Malinzi terrorist of death speaking about that the mi had decided and that there is a different view of stakeholders but this is the real situation for Africans. They have already said that now members of CCM are supporting a veteran of Blatter, who is competing for five term to lead the Federation of soccer in the world FIFA since he was elected for the first time with one hundred and eight hundred and eight. The donations that are given by FIFA to go to African countries including cash of five hundred thousand dollars each year together with the renovation of plots at the level of fake grass among the reasons that make the sector no tears to accept Zlatan Tenga, says that other candidates of the FIFA presidential race including the president of the Football Federation in the country Holland Marco van Kag and Jordan's president, King Mohammed bin Hussein and former Portugal national team player Luis kid didn't know African soccer for that Africans. The province has been said as a result of that, it is possible. Then we support it Candidate Yeah. So that's why Not Estate have announced to support Joseph Sepp Blatter Going to Tanzania? In the sixth general election It will go to Joseph So FAR. The FIFA elections will take place in May this year while many European countries having a stand to marry Blatter, who has qualified for the seat since one thousand and eight hundred and eight in another step, Tenga is competing again the message of the committee of performance when it was the only candidate who represents the African region, I ask Tenga for what he has to run for a message instead of vying for the presidency in the year. Rather, we just think that I want to be a preachers President while sir, talk about something AHH medals in Dar es Salaam
query1988 bishop religion
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_28041120 Ohh is still working with this work? It's safe for a lot of days, I thank the yes mm ehhe is following you very much and the family and he is watching the Manchester United football yeah. Mym okay, I want to ask close proximity you're following or without the football you get a mym for now what team is at this time. Halo mym mym AHH ehit just but sir I ulia is just a hard Job Why should we work and see how they are doing. Ehr It is cool there is no many activities So just AHH Job then I go back to it. Mym thanks for the best
query3418 EXAMPLE _OFparking facility
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_87366927 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 'Customers go on the names, number of folks. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Sophia Mwambe "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 09 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The police commander of the special region of Dar es Salaam, Simon Sirro, has appealed to the residents of that city and the visitors that visit the city from different provinces to ignore the voice reports that are being circulated on social networks that the police have arrested them when they were sleeping on the afternoon at the visitors' houses. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the report released by Sirro today, the news that are being circulated on WhatsApp networks and Telegram, as well as published in some of the newspapers that the police have arrested those people on claims of harassment and laziness is rumors. Commander Sirro said in evil intentions, those reports have claimed that the step is to implement the directive by President John Magufuli of 'Here's Here', something that is not true. "I urge all citizens that we are developing the operation in searching for suspects of different crimes including those doing business houses to sleep foreigners contrary to the law by running a bathroom," he said. He has said in his report that the investigation has revealed that there have been houses of sleeping guests that are running a business rary by protecting criminals, including women and men who are selling their bodies (sister and good brother). "It is the responsibility of the police to conduct an inspection from time in the house of visitors, hotels, restaurants, clubs, alcoholics and luxury spots," he said and added that those found will be taken against them. Sirro has urged the business people of sleeping houses to follow the procedures of receiving visitors by writing their names in books, writing the numbers of their identity cards and the places they get and when they give them any client to give information to any police station. He urged the chairpersons of local government and the delegates of 10 houses to be responsible to recognize all the visitors that get in their Empire and take appropriate measures that will be known to be criminals, so as to strengthen security. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_71709972 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Female children will be able to discover themselves "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Kareny Masasy, Kahama "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 11 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The secretary general of the ministry of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Sihaba Nkinga, has urged female children in school to start their consciousness, to avoid conflicts that will make them continue to be poor. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that they were unable to get pregnant while the mouth will not be unable to continue with its lack of employment in this country with the policies of the establishment of industries and remain employed in one group which are men. He said that the day before yesterday at the female children conference at the time of the commemoration of the Girl Child Day which took place in Kahama District, Shinyanga province in the secondary school, Mwendafarming. Organized by save the Children. Nkinga said that the female children have a responsibility to protect themselves and stop greed, ds and come out to know them by knowing their rights because they know they will avoid the poverty disaster if the country continues to have an industrialized economy and requiring the scholars to get employment. "If you are with you with the responsibility to protect yourself, get up with them, greed, you recognize and know your rights, right now we are heading to the economy of the female children who are protecting themselves from you will leave the male children alone to be in industries because they will have gone," he said. The United Nations Organization of dealing with the population (UNFPA) has been estimated that in the past ten years, one million girls are expected to have been married under 18 years worldwide, and statistics from the National Bureau of Statistics shows Shinyanga province is leading with 59 percent of early marriages. Education officer of Shinyanga province, Mohamed Kahundi said that the female children are required to stop the growing up and chicken as they get away and protect themselves from their goals. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_64093310 Two days ago, people listening to the news from Tabora where the attendant tried to take the body of their late brother to go to the ground for what they believe that their brother was killed by the police But today finally, the relatives and relatives of the late hamada, who was alleged to have been killed by police have agreed to take the body of their late brother ready for the funeral while continuing to wait for the results of the investigation of his death that was done by medical investigators from the headquarters of the police, those who were rejected by the investigation that was done by doctors from the referral hospital of Tabora province at 6 o'clock have been satisfied with the investigation that was done by the senior investigation of medical issues in the country, Ahmed churches, from the headquarters of the police force in the country, on the left is to have been following the scandal. The report Which will give an initial investigation that was done by doctors in the referral hospital of Tabora province especially in the investigation that was done by the senior inspector of national issues. Hable refused to leave the police headquarters in the country The late Hamadi chant died on January twenty-seven this year when he was receiving treatment at the referral hospital of Tabora province that caused many relatives and his fellow businessmen of the holiday claiming that he was killed by being beaten by the police who denied those claims. And we We have You are to take the body of the late to the end Due to this uncertainty and the relatives of the deceased are sent to take the body of the late until it should be investigation by experts from outside the province, the general elections of you requested a donation from the headquarters of the police force in the country we will take appropriate measures to anyone who is found, caused the death and marikebu for now I cannot say who has caused it. It is determined by the committee. Those experts led by the deputy commissioner of the military police force, the guest of honor have arrived in Tabora province and conducted an investigation through the chief physician of Tabora province, the law has explained what they did. After being satisfied that we have gone down completely. So, we will reduce the only thing that is only the events. That was sold from the chief chemist in the laboratory of the chief chemist. Now The brothers can have already received as pepper spray after the investigation of the relatives of the deceased came out in front of the journalists and explained their decision that we have forgotten because the body when you are hurt, when you are not completed all that we must take. To Africans Mi as a result of the economy taking place for the second time I have been comforted Indeed And I have agreed to take the body of the late from Tabora, I request with Mwaibale the servants. And someone
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_34251171 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. JPM: I'm so ruthless Asema wants the country back to the line, Mussa Juma and Daniel Sabuni @ mwananchi.corez Arusha. President John Magufuli has urged the citizens of Tanzania to be cruel to fire some of the directors of the government, because he wants to return the country on the line. Speaking on Sunday's mass in the Catholic Church, the parish of Mister Burka in Arusha town, President Magufuli said that the ruthless people are those who were not beer and sucking the weak. Doctor Magufuli said that he is forced to take action to fire the work is not that he is cruel, but the aim is to serve the citizens of Tanzania and return the country on the line. He said Tanzania is a rich country, there is no reason for citizens to complain every corner, because there is enough land, all kinds of land, animals from different types of animals that some of them have started to be taken outside. "When I take a step I want to put Tanzania that was tired, I have already said that I have made sacrifices to Tanzania especially the weak," he said. He added that he will not bring down the people of Tanzania and he will not change, he will continue to stand and defend the rights of the poor and all the days he will walk to the poor. The interest of parties speaking about political issues, he said the election is over if there are people who were Chadema, CCM, NRA or the CUF party, the aim is one to ensure they are partnering to bring development to Tanzania. "To take care of the interest of Tanzanians in front of our parties, because even if the parties would not be there," he said. He repeated his call to urge the citizens of Tanzania to continue praying for and pray for the nation, because leading the poor nation requires the support of God. The Priest of the church, Peter Pinto speaking on behalf of the Bishop of the Archdiocese of Arusha, Josephat Lebulu congratulated President Magufuli for the good work that he did with Tanzania. He said that many Tanzanians are supporting him especially in his slogan "Here's just work," because even the words of God insist on people to work hard. The chairman of that parish, Philemon Mushi giving greetings to believers explained to support the efforts of President Magufuli especially in trouble of boils. He said that even in the books of the corrupt God, the work that he is doing for President Magufuli is the work of God, to ensure he will return discipline and accountability for the benefit of all Tanzanians. In that service, President Magufuli was handed a gift of the Bible, bed sheets and rozali, he gave a gift of 1 million shillings to the church's choir and agreed to be an artist. President Magufuli is in this province on a work tour, and today he is expected to launch projects of buildings of the community development organizations of NSSF and PPF. Speaking about President Magufuli's statement that he is not cruel, Doctor James Jesse lecturer at the University of Law of the University of Dar es Salaam, said that the problem is not to be cruel or not, the big thing is supposed to be seen as decisions even if it is right, have to follow the basis of the law. Doctor Jesse said the action of public servants being suspended in public, is the same as encouraging them because they are supposed to achieve decisions they will be afraid to reach the right decisions by fear the pressure of the president. He said that it is good for public servants who are concerned with various challenges, to be followed by public service procedures in order to hold him and not to be removed publicly. John Bayo who is the coordinator of non-governmental organizations in Arusha Province (Angonet), said that for the nation, President Magufuli does not stop violence by stopping the public servants. He said there is a clear mistakes that have cost the nation, which has been made by the servants that even to stop the work they are not enough. "For example, the issue of sugar, people are looking for sugar so that others will not get people who are paying public property, it must be taken to be taken," he said. Hassan Hashi Ahmed, a businessman of Karatu, said President Magufuli does not do any violence, citizens are supporting 100 percent, as he defended the weak. Ahmedi said Tanzania had reached a place in trouble, therefore, it must now be taken to be taken and congratulate the president for good work. Joram Laizer, a resident of Arumeru district, said the president has heard the decision to fire people from work due to identifying irregularities, but he wonders some of the blame from the lack of accountability at other levels of the government. Laizer said the president is taking the action of stopping work is not as cruel, but there are many executives who have a chance to dismiss the work and they have failed to fulfill their authority, or they are responsible for embezzlement or not knowing their responsibility. He said that it has come when the president noted embezzlement, listening to the executive director of the lower level, then those on him who were defending them will release them. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_26529371 The whole thing we will not set up, we will not set up no noise it does not have a race, I am just so cool for just a thousand books for the Team. We're just talking about it Mym and studies are so cool but when it is good for Mister mym from but you still always have the people you are playing for the team. Mym in the church I can happen even before I don't know what I do not have to happen if you are pair t _ v or still hundreds. Mym Aai are for exams are in December because it does not have things Ohh sa isn't just a god, it's just a bit of it. When we welcome you, he is called to steal Mister
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_14911877 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Economic diplomacy see DR Congo Dec 22, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There are signs of believing that the situation may be dirty and worse in the neighboring country of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The problem that exists is that the nation was able to conduct its elections according to its constitution this year, but because of what the opposition's opponents Joseph Kabila want to be tolerated, the election was postponed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. What is happening now in DRC is another blow to democracy in Africa. If there is something wrong that is coming back to Africa at the speed of these days, it is the habit of the leaders to hold onto power. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The first one that we would like to believe is that the citizens of DRC have the right to define the fate of their country without interference by any foreign country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, the obvious truth is that Congolese citizens will not be left with paterners to decide their fate - as it has been over 50 years ago. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That is why, in a very unique way, we ask our government to not accept to be left behind or be called on issues that are going on inside that nation. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Economically, DRC is among the important business partners of Tanzania. According to the statistics of last year, DRC and Zambia alone, they contribute towards the cargo that was called using the port of Dar es Salaam by more than 70 percent. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While the situation is, we know that other major users of our port, Burundi, are in violence; something that has affected the business agreement. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Because now we have decided to follow what is called economic diplomacy, we think Tanzania cannot accept to be left behind while others look for a short period of time, the middle and a long time about DRC. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We should not accept to be seen people with the side that are going on in that country for now (although it is also the side in a certain way), because at the end of the day, our client is supposed to be the nation of DRC. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In whatever, we are responsible - because of our economic interests in DRC, and the fact that the problems with the wave of refugees will come to us, to make sure we participate in ensuring things are not welcome. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This is because, for the neighborhood to open, you are not safe. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_87596749 17 December 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He was imprisoned for 30 years for showers, tweets: "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Luppy shine, police and Raphael Okello, Musoma. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Two people have been sentenced to 30 years in prison after being found guilty of killing two children aged 12 in two different events that took place in the provinces of Dodoma and Mara. In the first event in Kongwa District, Dodoma province confirmed that Tuesday Hassan (22) was sentenced to 30 years imprisonment and beaten 30 strokes with the discovery of a class five child. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He was sentenced to that punishment is a resident of Liganga, Chitego Ward, Nzoisa Division. That judgment was given yesterday by the Kongwa District Court judge, Godfrey Pius, after being satisfied with the evidence given. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Previously it was claimed by the police inspector, Maulid Manu, he explained to the court how the child was filed while threatened to kill if he will take a noise. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He claimed that the incident happened on November 1, last year at two and a half a night in Liganga, Chitego Ward and Nzoisa division in Kongwa district. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. At the same time, Musoma District Court in Mara province has sentenced 30 years imprisonment, Adam Godfrey (27) for raping a 12 year old girl who is a student of Nyambono Primary School in Musoma Villages. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While reading the verdict yesterday, the senior judge in Musoma District, Richard Maganga, said the decision has been reached after being satisfied by the defense of the prosecution, thus he is judgment Adam Godfrey, to use that sentence. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Previously the prosecutor of the government, Jonas Kaijage, explained that the court that the suspect ran the offense at the Sbidding village in Musoma villages on May 11, this year, where he intervened in the opposite direction. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kaijage said Godfrey was drinking alcohol from the mother of that girl, therefore after drinking he claimed he had no money thus he asked her child to go with him at his home so as to give him the money he is alleged. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. She claimed in a way, Godfrey grew up with a knife and raped her. That case was taken to be read and read for the first time in court on June 12, this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2971 smokers tobacco
query728 guest of honor
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_90727690 I could not make up the restorations and you know it's lt; hes' gt; the Street you don't want a person with me to know that he does not. She does not have that ohh. Aai we know it has been in the evening I know it's farm inside. EhI Hope Stima know mym And even the Stima even Twitter lt; even if you get to you it becomes AHH no one here at home, you know that nobody can do it even by the I can do so much bad mym However, even if there are criminals from there, there is a result of the animal to you there are many people so that you don't have a lot. Let's stop ignorance and ufala? With tea in your own county
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_20548264 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. MARNNOMA that lives in Hollywood, residence in the film industry a very common thing, the music who succeeded to decide on the entertainment industry, to a shine. I and, Cher, David Bowie as the last one-year-old industry, a big number of marapa, as well as acting in acting on how to music. Let's react to the music that the music is not because of the love of deadly, and they still end up D. a to sell more than 25 albums across the world and write a name in memory books to be one of the great white women ever from the sun, heard an appropriate time that he needed to do in acting. While it is expected that he would start if i or with the relevant ones to give enough interest in the most deadly sector since the 8 Mile films (he was acting as Jimmy B-raba's character. Surprisingly, it is a film to be his first, which helped him be nominated for the Oscars awards. That o of Eminem acting and up to more than 50 films including w, Project X, Southpaw out of the ginezo. the rapper was acting in the Belly Hills in 1998. That period that he is still doing music and his talent in acting did not attract. But in 2000, when Romeo Must die is the time he started his ability in acting in acting and put him in one bridge in Hollywood. In the movie along with acting as a robber, he was featured in Soundtrack, the song he sang by the late Aaliyah. The filmmaker Andrzej owiak was impressed by Romeo Must to die in the movie "Wounds and Cradle 2 The G t Lithu four Jump OUT Boys, Death to soothing the Bleed.' Many stakeholders believe in the death of the rapper in the late T, at the time he was defending him in acting a lot like his colleagues as the assistant actor in Fi in Monster ball alongside the one that made him be decided to marry and do music but it doesn't have been involved in the Greek film and then got her face, Hawaii Five-0 and its delple. I know the quality that would like to thank the professionalism of acting is Half Bak aby Boy that he acted along with the beautiful Target P Henso a concerned for a cookie in the Empire of the Empire. Snoop has also come from another movie Training Day he acted with tight Denver Washington, a movie that helped him be nominated for Oscars. It is also good to remember his concerned Snoop at a joke Old School that brought him to her acting and left everyone a viewer. Typically, in the mistress, as you ask me, the Dinner would have to call him 'a kTail' of entertainment. This is because he is lying everything and it's still from the pipeline. He has the ability to navigate well only, he has the ability to sing with you, it's RnB and also by acting, huh! If you do not care. Tyler was focused on making More than anything else until the year 2000 when he decided to define it as well. This first documentary is a Baby Boy in 2001, So well. That Ukawa will be the beginning of the acting stage where he made music next to him and considering the film. He is acting as the concerned head on 2 Fast 2 Furious and then called again in the Fast and Furious 1 to 7, he acted together with the Death Race, Transformers, the Take all of 2007, Legion, this year while in Ride Along 2. Last year he announced to abandon all the music to be done more in acting. Ludacris in the year 2000, he started mistaken from the film of actor dancing in a small position of the concerned. That time he was doing a reliable music not a game. But when he participated in a joke in the Wash in 2001, that is the one that supports the way and got her way to act on 2 Fast 2 Furious together with his great friend Tyler. The biggest work that raised even more are those of 2005 Crash and Hustle & Flow that were selected to compete for the Oscars of that year. Then he found himself a lot and left the music completely the last time he had ever made a hit in 2004. Ludacris has continued to eat his skills in the film while among the actors who will be involved in the Fast and Furious 8 that will be released from 2017. LL Cool J: Under the age of 48. LL Cool J Sea, S.W.A of the films that AM very popular since 2000. Ice CUO'Shea Jac last year a group later AK Wit Attitu 1989 and his fellow MTV in the marapa of Music ime marapa w maishari y khadh, the music he puts on the top of him and the stars of n Ice Cub of the last six years to do, but now she is with r Ride Alon and Outta Compton among them. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_12727153 Majaliwa bursts "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Ikunda Erick and John Gagrisk, Kibaha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 22 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed the Coast Provincial Commissioner, Evarist Ndikilo to write letters to government institutions, public and private stadiums that are not ongoing here in the city, to explain how they will start developing and within two weeks to give answers, otherwise the grounds will be done. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That order was issued yesterday in the city when he was launching a strategic plan of the Tanzanian Court (2015-2020) and the improvement project of the Tanzanian Court, Coast Province. Before the directive by the prime minister, the head of that province, Ndikilo gave him to the prime minister, public institutions and private institutions, which have carried out plots for a long time between five to ten years without developing and asked (Majaliwa) to make a decision because there are people they need. "Kibaha is a refuge in Dar es Salaam province, there is full of here, there is a chance to these who have not advanced, write letters today and give them two weeks to explain how they will be ready to start that work," ordered Majaliwa. The prime minister mentioned those institutions that have not yet developed the stadiums to include the small Treasury with two stadiums and one with the number 232 has been continued, but another number 221 has not been continued. Other institutions and fields in brackets are High OUT of the wealthy and. 228), Njuweni Institute (wealalu). 229), Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) (TANESCO). 218), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) (wealalu and. 233): SF Group (wealalu) 225), CRDB Bank and the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB). He wanted the Ndikilo to write letters and know it should be within two weeks. "I know there are people of the government to say they don't have a budget, but the budget of the budget is starting on April next year, so they should prepare themselves in the next budget, so that by July first, 2018 if they have not advanced, we will take action, we will take our plots, we should give the others and those who want them to sign up," said Majaliwa. Previously, while launching the project, Majaliwa said many citizens are getting problems of reaching various community services, including the courts in the ward and district level, something that is unacceptable. "Let me take this opportunity to remind our colleagues of the court that, we are all ready for the purpose of serving customers, therefore the plans and strategies to look at the procedure that will give their rights to them so as to increase faith in the courts and the government in general," said Minister Majaliwa. He said the strategic plan that was launched yesterday is a good sign of leadership and the performance of the court which is aware, which is going for and for short time and put procedures to test themselves and assess each step. The strategic plan of the court, which will cost 139.5 billion dollars (equivalent to 65 million American dollars), will be punished for money from the government's budget and a loan of affordable terms from the World Bank. Earlier while welcoming the Prime Minister to speak to the audience that attended the launch, the chief justice of Tanzania, Othman Chande said that the court has started a new cadre of staff to manage financial issues so that the cadre of the law continue with the court activities. He said the launch of the strategic plan of the year 2015 / 16 to 2019 / 20 together with the improvement of the services of the Tanzanian Court, will enable the court to build a resident magistrate court between five to eight, the courts of 30 to 40 districts are expected to be built and of 70 to 100 districts that will be built within five years of that program. Judge Chande said among 26 provinces in the country, only 14 provinces that have a high court. He said that those courts can be built in Njombe, Geita, Simiyu, Katavi, Singida, Manyara, Songwe, Lindi, Coast and Morogoro. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_48915504 From Bishop route has failed, the church will continue with its efforts to fight without getting tired in the community, that is to see the community is living a good life to thank the Almighty God and not otherwise. It will continue to provide education On gender violence And we can also be able to name these children, they are oppressed and undergo gender violence to be able to move forward together with the property we love the actors. Their parents, we love you so much to me, I would like to love you so much your parents and you have so much like a deal in things that are praising God, except that you don't give it God like that genital mutilation is not a violation of the law, I want to refuse but all the names look at the high speed you must agree with your parent on one, you will refuse to receive their children. Above who will be responsible to talk to the parent to your girlfriend at a price on stage is back at the time he was defending our property. Morning he was concerned Even He himself is the government That does not exist if you have been using you, the sir being badly injured even if you know, they want to hurt you, there would have us the security people still lack this network for him to take him to his home, it will be special to be announced. From Serengeti is I left for the interests of people
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_94154101 These are the survivors of Simba and Yanga Oct 06, 2016 by our writer, entertainment & sports "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The game of the longtime rivals in the country - Simba and Yanga, has ended at the end of the week with a draw of 1-1 goals, while the game has a lot of confusion outside and inside the stadium. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That match that was played at the National Stadium, witnessed different things happening and making those teams right now being locked to use that stadium for unknown time due to the destruction of the infrastructure that was done by the fans of those teams. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Despite the game being in a state of violence, but Good Citizen was going to the field for the purpose of taking that game and will cost you a mixture of players of those teams that performed well. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Vincent Angban (Simba) - Mprotecting this door to the Ivory Coast citizens showed great strength in his goal by being able to air well his defense column for all the time of the game. Despite Simba, playing with nine people in the field after their captain Jonas Mkude was given a red card, but Angban was able to ask the team and ensure it gets a draw of 1-1. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Jansen Bokongu (Simba) - Kabul of that game, the former defender of TP Mazembe Club, appeared to be a novel in the area due to the pace of Yanga players, but Bokongu showed his side and stand up well. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That defender was able to face Yanga's mid-fielder, Juma Mahadhi, who was planned on his side and there is a time planting in front to raise the attacks. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mohamed Hussein "Tshabalala-Simba) - every time you get from one game to another, the young man shows maturity when it comes to big games. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tshabalala, who has been completed the strength and the defender of Yanga, Haji Mwinyi a low end, was able to make the whole of Yanga's mid-fielder, Deus Kaseke, who is among the dangerous players of Yanga who also made a lot of opportunities to attackers Donald Ngoma and Ammis Tambe. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Andrew Vincent "Dante - (Yanga) - Dante, entered the second half to take the position of Kelvin Yondani" Vidic, "who had one yellow card came to strengthen security together with Vincent Bossou. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Dante, who was registered from Mtibwa Sugar, came to make a big coup in the second half to save the ball on the bottom. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Method Mwanjali (Simba) - the defender king onto the old age of old was fulfilling his responsibilities by standing well with Donald Ngoma of Yanga, who are always facing the guards of Simba. But we didn't want to have a responsibility to protect, but sometimes he went ahead to support the attacks. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mbuyu Twite (Yanga) - Twite, who is in the squad with an attacking mid-fielder by standing in front of four defenders and protect them. I gave this opportunity because of the way he can afford his responsibilities and unless he gave to Amissi Tambwe. That was his own passport. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mwinyi Kazimoto (Simba) - Kazimoto who played the mid-fielder and there is a time in the middle to help the attacks, he is the Simba player that led to be played by each other in that match. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After Mkude being given a red card, Kazimoto came out of collaboration with Muzamiru Yasin and were able to control the area of the stadium. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Thaban Kamusoko (Yanga) - Zimbabwe's citizen has been one of Simba's faces to win in his recent games against Yanga. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This former mid-fielder of FC Platnum of Zimbabwe was in his quality by connecting well the team in the mid-fielder and attack. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ammis Tambwe (Yanga) - Kate one basic thing about Australian attackers. They don't have mercy and they are individuals. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. People can say about Tambwe defeated the ball before closing. But, as it was to Thierry Henry in the past and Bannon told others, Tambwe could not stop scoring because he got the ball before. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. How he asked the ball and took the ball to the ball, he showed how Tambwe is vibrant in finishing. This is the ninth version of old. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ibrahim Ajib (Simba) - If there is a player whose talent has no doubt here in the country, then that is Ajib. By comparing Donald Ngoma of Yanga, Ajib, at least he will be breathing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He scored a goal that was born by the referee and he always tried to do things that made him the defense column for Yanga in a difficult time. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Shiza Kichuya (Simba) - you cannot miss this game without mentioning this name of this mid-fielder who was signed at the beginning of this season from Mtibwa Sugar. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35375284 We are the ones looking for even if they have to forget that I got to forget the team you do. Ehor is Jameni or manager. Mym ehr then I'm paying what is the way to care about the direction but the same thing is my best to do and what is the ticket of madrasa University anone mym yeah, make a lot of money for how much money you are. They lahi, I will give you everything like a mm Job Mister mym Job. There's no matter to think about it, then you don't know that the classes are the only way of power, the power of power is not very worried, I take a picture for the first day, you see you see if you know if you know if you know if you get a Baby Class and nursery because children are not a lot of you to pray for hope you will start with eight and then depending on as the queues in the neighborhood we will know if you will talk. Yeah, you are the same as AHH you can't mi what is to link to those of you and we're not interested in you, tell us that there is no noise I don't like the noise. Now it's not for you or revive your number. Mym Ehr I mean to criticize mother Zainabu is just to accept the noise that there is no noise that you don't only have the only fee but it was very high there is nothing to be what he is. Mym and not taken for the release There is no meaning there is nothing about the things to follow up in Vietnam, that is what you go down with the child. If you are okay with a sign and then I was coming and asked with our colleague Fred's lt; hes Twitter gt; don't see a mym Mym When I came to me when I was in my way I come to tell me that I'm on the way I come to tell me that I was on the way I came to my mother and another father to tell me what he is kyoto is trying to come like I am here. Yes, htt; doesn't give you any report and we should not call it then it is not me to ask why it is why it is really discouraging. Ohh that's about your things Those of you know what you know is, and write about it now, I know you told you to be a py. And involve now and have to increase the annoying snow. Let me tell me that I told me that I was telling him and we were telling you. AHH is not mi I explained to me and I didn't want to get I got. Mym
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58099233 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Entrepreneurship groups are an opportunity for low-income earners in recent years, there has been an increase in small groups that involve agricultural entrepreneurs, rearing and different businesses. These groups are an opportunity for members to reach the goals that for one person. The union of these entrepreneurs has been the source of education and expertise of modern skills in rearing, agriculture, small businesses and sustainable economy. It is easy for the group members to look for education and different skills as a result of their needs that will help to increase production and get into the competitive economy that will benefit many and increase employment. Also, groups are a way to expand the product market for the members themselves. What they are required to know, the quality of their products are required to be tested well by the small market around them so as to make the opportunity to reach far. In the group, it is easy to use a few resources together from the group itself, the government or development partners. There are time members benefit from various issues like small capital, education and skills of making products. As a result of their unity it becomes easy to reach many customers together with them to benefit from these existing resources. Making groups that will go hand in hand with the speed of modern economy, there is a need to recognize their needs of business knowledge that are going on and while considering the business environment that is changing. These knowledge include financial skills, expanding their products and sustainable entrepreneurship training. Expanding the relationship and build social networks in order to grow the market and get many stakeholders to work with them. Here is a chance to meet the government as a general stakeholder in development and other institutions that offer funding and entrepreneurial donations. This relationship becomes a way for members of the group, one individual, to look for additional markets even outside the country. A note is to avoid the networks that will destroy the group members and to stop them dead or to take them completely. To create and improve policies and good laws that will protect the interests of the group and its members by giving guidelines and vision of important things to the group is another issue that needs to be given priority. The policies and laws should talk about the control of party funds, guidelines to leaders and its members. We put groups with the basis of the rule of policies and law then we will create equal opportunities and benefit all together with meeting the enthusiasm of development. Groups look at the possibility of investing in joint projects. The existence of a group is a way of allowing them to have a joint projects that will be used to produce great capital. The youth are required to be encouraged to join these groups so as to contribute and achieve the efforts to improve economically. Hilarious as well as creating a short and long-term plans together with the business plan to carry the picture of the group to achieve its goals, including withstand the difficult environment for implementation of plans. "The existence of many groups is not a crime, the main thing is to ensure these groups have basic issues that we need to access after fulfilling our responsibility. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2270 fickle
query1910 tire cars
query1858 national symbol
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_96505324 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The system of paying taxes, critics and Mwangi MUKariuki, the American Development Corporation (USAID) warned the government that the system of tax in the country that you fill the agricultural sector. The organization has now advised the government to increase tax systems in nations that have managed to strengthen the agricultural sector. The organization mentioned VAT tax for agricultural equipment as a big challenge in lifting revenue to farmers despite the efforts of the government and donors to invest in that sector. This was said yesterday by the supervisor of the central region of USAID, Miss Katrine Joseph when he joined the four day workshop of breeders. Miss Joseph said a lot of nations that have managed to uplift agriculture usually does not pose tax on important equipment and instead give funding to reduce the cost of production to a minimum of five percent. He said that the organization that is accused of using 4.2 billion shillings to fund development projects in the country. Those funds will not be given directly to the county governments that will be directed to projects sponsored by community groups. He said that the county that will benefit more are those that are in revenue projects especially in agriculture. Miss Joseph said that the kipper will be given in the production of milk where that organization will issue 120 million shillings to build 53 machines for storing milk by the next year. The Capital Development Officer, Mister Joseph This said if the breeders will increase the delivery of milk, the government will ensure they have benefited from the ways of adding the quality so that during the business in the market. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query375 news weather
query1916 garbage ladder
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_57828762 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 27 years in prison for theft "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Kareny Masasy, Maswa "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 13 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Maswa District Court in Simiyu Province has sentenced a resident of the new bus station in Maswa District, Jason Masele (18) to go to prison 27 years after being found guilty of breaking the house night and steal. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While reading this at the end of the week, the judge of that court, Tumain Marwa said he was pleased with the evidence provided in front of the court and the prosecution that was being led by the inspector of police, Nassib Swedy and therefore he found the defendant to serve in jail. "This court has been pleased with no doubt and evidence given by the prosecution witnesses who has confirmed that the defendant has committed all the mistakes of breaking the house and steal, therefore it is guilty to go to jail for 27 years to be a lesson to other people with the intention of doing such mistakes," he said. Previously it was claimed that in the court and the prosecutor, Swedy said the defendant ran the offense on August 11th this year at 9: 00 pm on the new bus station in Maswa district contrary to section 258 (1), 256 and 294 (1) (2) of the law on the regulations of the 16 chapter that was done in 2002. He explained that the court that after breaking the house of Leonard John entered into and stole 98,000 shillings and various clothes worth 300,000 shillings. Later the police force in that district started a crackdown and arrested the accused with some of the clothes that were stolen. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1851 pork pig meat
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17675481 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Bayi, Gulam took the form TOC "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Cosmas Leaf "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 12 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The president and the secretary general of the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Gulam Rashid and Filbert Bayi take the forms to defend their positions in the general elections that will be held in Dodoma on December 10. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to reports that was found in Dar es Salaam yesterday, they said Bayi has taken and returning forms. The two leaders who were expected to go to Qatar to attend the annual general meeting of the National Olympic Committee (ANOC) that will take place next week Doha, have been forced to take place since they will be there until November 17. At the end of taking and returning forms for those who want to vie for the leadership TOC is November 15 because that day they will not come back to the country. Speaking on phone yesterday, Bayi did not accept nor reject but he said that yesterday he had a lot of work in his office before leaving to Qatar. Other reports indicate that the former assistant director of the Director of Sports in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Juliana Yassoda is among the collected forms to vie for the TOC. Yassoda is among the TOC trainers, who for a long time has been giving training to various sports parties in the country. Others who have already taken the form to vie for the message include Muharami, Irine Mwasanga, Noorean Sharif, Noel Kihunsi and Zakia Mrisho who is vying for the message of those who have ever participated in the Olympic Games (Olympians). The Qatar Summit and other things, will listen to the Cities that want to prepare for the 2024 Olympic Games and the Paramount of Paramount. More than 1,000 members from 206 countries are expected to attend the annual meeting. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_14523379 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ponography is the cause of the collapse of many people who have been watching pornography without knowing that they affect psychological. Apart from the youths who have been supporting those pictures including young age, there are adults who have been abducted by those pictures. I think this shame. Because it has been easy to get these pictures from the development of technology, there is a need for people to help them look because they can disrupt the lives of someone. If action will be taken then the human being will be the same as an animal who cannot be good and bad. WAIN, Nairobi "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_68654776 Thank you so much my house if you think of you, a picture Masele we have participated in the US army has made different activities, let us go, he is on the same side that the army will be celebrated like that day, what the army will remember and what is important to the soldiers and their families by phone like today. Ehn in a day like today The faces know Shomari, they are often remember the big struggles that the main people fought and won. There is a big struggle like what happened to the coast During the second world war Ehthere is a big struggle as the struggle has taken place, htt; hes tgt; in Vietnam So many times and the commission does not remember the people who died in the big struggle that we weren't able though they died but they won the laboratory that you get. He is really grateful for explaining what things are there but there is something that many have been asking even on the internet you are asking that soldiers who have been accused of serving here in America there are certain things that those sponsors like ordinary people may be maybe in transportation in restaurants maybe maybe in studies, what the soldiers have been serving are getting benefits due to the bad things to the government. Ehr We hope there are a lot of things but I will speak a few things. AHH, for example, and who a span of union call it and what do we try to think the fine word Liwekama bank People who retired from the army Many times, for us that the commission's commission we have had members of the army to ask for loans for example if you want to buy a house I want to buy a car becomes easy for us to get loans when we go to normal banks. Okay, it is understandable that it is understood very well and also on Sunday I see that when a day like today I feel that there are other things and there are restaurants and restaurants here in America that provides food to those soldiers who were able to be able to give food to soldiers who were able to go through in the US army and as well as picture Masele, you can tell us on the other side where there are various challenges, soldiers and restaurants which are grateful for that way to be able to provide food to soldiers who were able to go through in training to do your work, that is something you can understand that it is facing journalists every time maybe there are many challenges you know. Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; there are a lot of challenges but I can say in summary First challenge Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; it is hours of work A lot of people working in offices are doing eight hours for instance, you are home But we are also in the army Especially when you are outside the country you can work until twenty-four hours. So it is normal Another challenge when you have participated in various struggles and have witnessed many injuries and deaths They are people who are fellow soldiers and soldiers. There are other people that farmers are concerned about AHH you can't know what they go to the same events when they go back home they are like they have mental problems. As a result of things he has witnessed and it's true to say the truth
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_87178632 Malinzi: What went to Lowassa to do? Jan 23, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. President of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Jamal Malinzi, has all the rights of having friendship with someone and support him in any good thing. So that the project doesn't use the laws of the country, Malinzi can go anywhere he wants, to meet anyone who wants to speak to anyone. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But there is a big difference, the biggest difference between Jamal Malinzi, as a private person and Jamal Malinzi as the president of TFF. In Swahili language, we say the difference is like between heaven and land. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I will give a few examples. Jamal Malinzi can go to the pitch and celebrated a goal when his team Yanga plays. But, as the president of TFF, he is supposed to show that he will not trust him even if he has personal love. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. As a private person, Malinzi can go to a meeting of clubs while wearing a shirt of the club he loves but as the president of TFF, there is a level that he cannot cross in showing his love. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Whenever he did, he is supposed to put the first interests of his institution first before his personal interests. When it comes to the time of choosing between an issue with its benefit and with the benefit of TFF, the president of TFF is supposed to choose the one with the benefit of the institution. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 'It's a lot of things but with a great impact, very great. That is why, I was surprised by his step of visiting the retired prime minister the day before yesterday and asked him about the strategy of the federation. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The big question that is being asked here is why Malinzi went to explain the plans and strategies of TFF to Lowassa. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Lowassa is not the minister of the Ministry of Information and Sports which at least is working closely with that federation. If Lowassa would be the minister of that ministry, I could understand the aim of Malinzi to go. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Unfortunately, I have not heard if Malinzi has been to the minister of that ministry, Doctor. Fenella Mukangara, explaining to him about the strategies that he has explained to Lowassa. The question is going on, why Malinzi went to a person who TFF does not work with him directly? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I would understand a bit of Malinzi as Lowassa would be the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Social Development which is involved in sports issues. But Lowassa is the chairperson of the parliamentary committee of foreign affairs which in fact has no direct connection with TFF. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. If Lowassa would be a member of the National Sports Council (BMT), I could understand the aim of the tour of Malinzi. But unfortunately, Lowassa has never been a member of that council. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I say that I would have understood if Malinzi would have gone to meet with President Jakaya Kikwete, because his government is paying the salary of the coach of the national team (Taifa Stars). But Lowassa is a member of parliament and not in government for now. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. If Malinzi has had a problem to meet with the retired prime minister, he is known for loving soccer. Called Frederick Tluway Sumaye and not Edward Lowassa. If he had met with Sumaye telling him about his plans to lift soccer, at least I could not understand. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That is why I wonder, Malinzi was followed by Lowassa? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Edward Ngoyai Lowassa who I know I have never seen him in any big soccer match here in the country for a long time now. Basically, when you talk about the names of politicians who like soccer game, the name of Lowassa is not mentioned. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We see the politicians who come to the National Stadium during the big and small matches of football. Professor Juma Kapuya usually comes to the field. Samuel Sitta is not that he is attending a poem, but he is also one of the sponsors of the Simba Club. I have also seen them in the field, often, Freeman Mbowe and Zitto Kabwe. They like the ball. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Amos Makalla is coming to the field. Mussa Azan Zungu is attending the match. Iddi Azzan is attending the match. Richard Ndassa is attending the match. Juma Next is attending the match. I have seen many times Mwigulu Nchemba attending a match at the National Stadium where the big match will be played. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I am not sure if Lowassa has been entering the stadium to watch the match even one of the soccer. It is inside my right to say that Lowassa is not a football person. It wouldn't be that, all of us would know because the era of football is not something to hide. That is why, together with holding the highest position in this country, every one who is following soccer knows that Kikwete loves Yanga club. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On the sidelines of Football, there is no secret. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query4144 salary increase
query468 coffee beverage
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_89546333 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Chinese is supposed to have 10 fake machines "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by John Nditi, Morogoro "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 15 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Police in Morogoro province are holding a citizen of China, Guo YOU Yuan (48), a resident of Kibaoni in Ifakara district, Morogoro province, after being found with 10 machines for the lottery, which were distributed in that town, which are under level. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Morogoro provincial police commander, Ulrich Matei, confirmed yesterday the arrest of the Chinese citizens after the crackdown by experts of the lottery authority and found 10 machines that were scored in Ifakara town. Therefore, he said that the suspect was arrested around 4 o'clock in the morning of December 13th this year, following a crackdown by lottery experts from the headquarters of Dar es Salaam by partnering with other organs. According to Commander Matei, those experts after assessing the machines, they discovered that they were not having the quality required and they are also in a low level. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_27277991 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Chinese netizens were detained in the United States for stealing three Chinese citizen reports are accused of getting into a computer system for American Law firms and made the theft of millions of dollars in New York City. Prosecutors are saying that in that primary case that they were able to get more than 4 million American dollars after getting secret reports from those laws of the law. They say they got more benefits after buying shares in those laws of law as part of the owners. Reports indicate that the theft of using computer networks is growing rapidly in many developed countries and threatening the life of many businesses in the world. Manhattan's lawyer, Preet Bharara warned that the case is a novel of depression about the ongoing theft of computer and Social media in the United States. The three Chinese are accused of getting into communication with the companies, censored, making business transactions, and theft of millions and getting into a computer system. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_95324869 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tuesday, October 25, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Five things that can help you about the time to be close to the child "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Many parents like to be close to children with the aim of building the environment to learn. The challenge, however, is lacking enough time to do so. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For example, it is normal for parents from home in the morning and go back to night when the children have already lost. The main expectations of work has been a priority and therefore we are using a lot of time to work that primarily are helping us to care for our children. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, our important role is making it sometimes we have time to help children with feelings, knowledge and even specifically known as we wish. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. These articles are discussing five steps of taking so that you can help the parent to get time to invest in the upbringing of your children. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Know the kids they need you "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Many parents think they are able to ensure that their children have eaten well, they have been safe, wearing well, they have good health, they have got better schools and get other important needs, then they have finished. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But despite the importance of these needs, it is good to realize that children are requiring you more. They need to be able to listen to their feelings, anxiety, hopes, to talk to them to know their personal life, their secrets and others that they can't tell other people. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Think about it. If you can get ten minutes a day to stay with your child to listen and give him a chance to talk about you, its meaning between 168 hours that you have for a week, will have succeeded to have a child for a period of 27 days when he becomes the age of 12 / 13! It is dangerous to do the upbringing of a "extra work" that is done when they allow. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Programming priorities "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The scale of the 24 hours we are depending on the priorities we did. The rules are simple. Non-human resource is directed at priority areas. For example, when we go to work ahead, it is clear we will direct some of the time to work. Similarly, in those environments we are forced to reduce the time of doing non-important things. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That is to say, recognizing the importance of the recovery of a child goes hand in hand and make efforts to make sure you celebrate your time to get time to have a child. Time is made. To put a priority to the family, they will make sure that other things that are not necessary so that you can get a good time to have your family. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For example, instead of going through the areas that bring together your friends for non-mandatory talks after work, you can go home directly and therefore get time to have your family. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Put family goals "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Try to involve the children and your partner in creating a procedure that will consider the expectations of every family member. When you have a family plan that is understood helps to make the children know how family activities can destroy it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For many children, for example, remember the birth ceremony, the graduation, the parents' day in school and the embellishments are a permanent memory in their lives. When you remember to bring in these things of those who are in your plans, it helps the children to see you have accidents. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Likewise, the activities with family goals is a system of accountability in the family that helps to remind of a parent to set aside time to meet the expectations of children. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Don't end up "office" home "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This is a challenge to many workers. It is true sometimes we lack the time to finish our responsibilities at work and therefore forcing them to go home. But, however, there is a practice of losing time at work sometimes without basic reasons. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For example, many workers can spend a lot of time with no productivity at work. Technology has made it easier to "live" on social media without the need. The result, we will not be completed the work responsibilities for the time set up and the loss of this time loss is due to lack of home. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In line with not moving the office work home, it is important to remember your duty as a parent from home. Children need to stay with a parent and not a parent who is continuing to be police, manager, teachers or engineer when he is home. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tenga has a special time for the family "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Think about using the end of the week for your family. In the environment that five days of the week have been far away from home, to continue with other schedules, the end of the week is repression of their basic rights. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. During that on Saturday and Sunday it's special to stay with children and husband / wife, instead of leaving friends or go to other activities that continue to keep away from the family. When you go home you give your children a long time to enjoy for talks and sports. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Likewise, they can be able to think to take their children from home, like in special areas for children's games, sea beaches, in a garden and open spaces, hotelini and even areas of worship as the demands and hope for the children. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Follow the knowledge magazine in Mwananchi newspaper every Tuesday. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is written and "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Christian Bwawani "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_29275032 Nape to deal with the electronic tickets "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Grace Mkojera "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 01 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye has cautioned soccer fans about the availability of electronic tickets while promising to deal with those who hinder that plan deliberately. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Nape said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he spoke to the press about the tickets that they are beginning to be used officially today in the premier league match between Simba and Yanga. Those tickets were started to be sold the day before yesterday but there was a challenge where some of the soccer stakeholders complained about getting easily. Nape said, has ordered Selcom who are the sellers of those tickets to distribute cards and agents at the National Stadium to ease that service from yesterday morning. Nape said there has been a little challenge in the availability of those cards, but already the issue has been addressed and that those cards are given free after someone bought tickets. "This system is still new, there has been complaints that things are going on procedures, we are organized to see this system is successful. The challenges that come out will continue to be addressed in time later things will go well, "he said. Nape said there are some people who have been fighting for the purpose of this system to be reached and promised to face them. He said at any cost, he will ensure that the system does not remember because the legitimate income that will be available will go to the government, in the team and all those involved. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_46628317 AHH is just a bit but not really. As medicine It is not medicine you know now if you get a chance I would like to be an idiot and this street is something like that now, and you know it is not a bad school one of the worst thing that he will talk to speak up just about it, not only who told me it's not just the things to talk about not only one I went for months. Ehorehhe is the first Ehr but now mi I am just as mi I put the other I was told by the doctor, how will you know my brother after I want to give you a lot of hope that you want you to be told you want this weekend. Left is not in line with the church until why. Okay, we will know if you put it up there now will have to ask you even a mym you want to suggest even mi So aclean in your church Mym no you know that I request for you to ask for any day when I want to talk. Now I call him to call on Sunday mym I will come to church AHH on Sunday the day of the crash is not available. Mym ehhe will be invited? Now and if it is found now that you get that day they will be found. Ohh and yacobo but now you know it's not you know that you may have been called a certain place and you are running there, maybe it will be a little bit? Ehhe because we have made a job in front than God, sir. It's not so palpable, we have we request when I get the opportunity we are going and we are cooperating with our colleagues, mym AHH, they have said the truth But it is good to set aside one day in a week inside worship for you coming up with the family and from your mother, you can partner with your wives. Ehorehr
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25330055 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TAMWA should increase JPM, Doctor Shein "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 29 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Tanzania Women's Association (TAMWA) congratulates President John Magufuli and the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein for the appointment of leaders and especially women. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the appointment recently, several members of TAMWA got a chance. TAMWA mentioned its members and their positions are Mahfoudha Alley Hamid (Ummie) who has been the chairman of the board of directors of the government newspaper of Zanzibar, Maryam Hamdan (the chairperson of the Council of Arts and Film Census of Zanzibar), Nasra Mohamed Juma (the deputy director of Zanzibar Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC) and Rahel Mhando (administrative secretary of the new district of Kigamboni). The Executive Director of TAMWA, Eddah Sanga said the institution believes that in bringing development changes in the country, women's appointment in high positions are opportunities that will enable the removal of managerial limitations in order to be equality and justice to all Tanzanians. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_47639676 Mym ehhe years ago I remember the same way he is so much to remember two years there is a metal in school. We were the one we read and we are in secondary schools and asked. Ohh mi remembers when we see TV in the same way. Mym ehorehI remember the life that we live in remember or Entertainment Jo ehhe and there is now life that has changed. And I remember completely, I see the school is that their only female child is the only one, I was surprised when I was surprised to see that the youth was given out of that school has been the only yesterday. When the school has been alone in these days I went to school, I got the councilors to fail because to change the constitution or do it? When activities have changed, I am surprised to see. When I saw that the school, even clothes have been transformed on date are transformed as they are doing very different. It's a draw of mm how she is wearing Ehit is very true about the things run, you know sometimes it may have changed when people think that it was blessed by or people are going to be buried. When today the eight eight will be changed. AHH must have to go to the first one, it is it I think they are going to the side of the buses, I think that the drama I have not heard very much but it's the living I hear and think it goes on. Ohh the year and the queues at music and drama SA plans for tomorrow how the day will go. AHH as I see tomorrow I see if it will have a lot of activities playing, there must be music that we will go tomorrow fun there. Ehr, so tomorrow there is a place where research If the same will have the preparations for you, I don't know what he is and then I will go to school to prepare my things and I know I will do so I will have a lot for you to know the life like that I can bring. AHH thus it will be good. Ehormi just like you know these days we need to mean for it. Ehit plans and plans for the future that we are heading to now see the way the way it is. AHH at the same time, so we should know what we have to finish school but that is the years without thirty years and where is it, we will know we will be. The thirty-year-old and mym ehhe will have to have a must for a woman, you know the Bible is the one that is born and think about a month that you must come and get it up. Ehr then you call this a home plan Yeah, we must find a good plan to prepare well that is why I don't know it will happen. When we need to start the lower level until we need to prepare well but I'll see this AHH must come up and harder for the reason why I don't want those who were there in high school and the preparations you know how small things are needed to bring us the problem, therefore the small things must come in mind when I started to go far from that is the activities that we are having to make these schools right now. If you must, then you see how this is in school? Yes And yes. AHH yes I agree with you all this time, we should know how we should work hard. When we know that we can also see until we heard a lot of art or what is a degree that can be very well, you know the friends of these days are those who pay for alcohol If it's done so far, that's the reason for now. If these days you get in this is the one who has been brought to get where these days is drinking alcohol and smoking of drugs and that is not good words When they say they are telling them that the male system is also a dress for a class, I just see that they are friends that was told you will find you mym Yes, I will let them tell you that they are friends with you and they are the ones that do for you to come in those words that do not know. Ehme is that I eat at home, let's know it true AHH huto at the same time if this is so far as a supporter of so I am Daisy 'lt; hes Twitter gt; the sheep is the one who put it up and do you have shown what's on the farm Mym mym When I am on the farm, I want to go to harvesting my potatoes, not you know that there is a whole who is cold and we must look at my potatoes on how I started to pay for five other children, so I started to pay for the five other animals that I started to pay for my animals College. Ehyou we yes. AHH that this is very good that he has closed down the animals that my child has helped me if they provide milk and I sell it is the children to get fees for school fees. It's really milk, I know what you are true and mym AHH completely doesn't decide then again there are those cows and animals, we have a problem and then you are still getting ten money until as fees and so on. When you pay for fees and get to remember I remember our beloved friend that you saw the second game is supporting itself and have joined them. If I have seen on the internet lege lege AKO and the fashion cow as it is not seen there, there is another big language of meat at this time we have seen us so much but you get this time if this is a neighborhood you get a little problem with grass because this sun is very much that you get our way from now, we have to find that it's what animals do. Mym ohh these days you decided to get into rearing Ehhe. Mym Okay, there's a problem we need to be embellished and you will get things that the tribe is the hand and also come out well, the farms do well, it is normal for life you know life is I tell you you'll go with them as he is coming to it. Halo AHH thus yes we are doing we are looking for farms When it is so far we have to look like this time we have to look for the plantations than it is the only animals that we are looking for them, we are looking for those farms, we will put food and then the sun is very intense, we use the farms to help you. Ehhe, well Ehhe and I heard about how all the birds come out of the air that they have a lot of benefits, I don't know if there you can breed the aircraft. AHH if this time is not if it is not even if I don't know the animals even we have put on them about but I still hear that there are still those things that we want to make us know what we know is that we should start. Ehr When these airplanes are giving eggs for people are crying until it's not before they come up with homework, the maize eat it's because it is shut down. You are the same as if these animals are giving eggs and you sell even this time and then again the other plan, therefore, if I put Linda if that is no matter to you, well. When it is true he is true to be very big to the farmer like the same and will have to be apologetic to pay for them to pay for women who pay for life to continue the future of these days is like the day before yesterday that they said last days have been published. Hell AHH, as if this is like this
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_64842241 And we can see that the government will begin to review the new strategies by the month of September this year so that the government and its citizens can benefit from various awards for the award through the mining sector here in the country to get more information from it. That has been said that when I shifted from the deputy minister of minerals Stephen Masele when he was addressing the citizens that are in his one day tour in that district. Cold to follow Another child Between them Why the contract He has said that most of the citizens who live in the neighborhood and mines where some of them have been taken to their areas and the players are not benefiting from the presence of those players due to the previous eight law which provides more compensation than furniture and deposition of the contract to bring benefits to the citizens. I reported from Shinyanga, charles hilila of Chanel ten
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_93784018 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The 17th year old girl going through a bowl to die soon after his parents talked to his parents on the use of FACOK in order to comply with more pictures. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A 17-year-old girl in India in Parbhani has shot himself after his parents dissent him on Facebook to get time to consider the lessons he had failed in the classroom and it was before it started using Facebook where he was successful. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Aishwarya Dahiwal was found dead in her room after an eruption between him and her parents who were outraged by a lot of time he used on Facebook and long conversations on his mobile phone. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The technology-based newspaper, Gawker reported that the late left a message saying that he would be able to live without social media and one of the written posts include asking, "What are Facebook is bad?" "I can't live in a house with restrictions on this type and I can't live without Faceboook" and let him blame his parents for the suicide action he took. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. As it is for any parents who normally have seen life and understand the methods of dealing with them, they had a good intention of wanting to help their child to succeed but the changes in every generation that come up with his challenges that do not have criteria or illustrations of how to help the child to face him well, a situation that did not expect it would happen. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Undoubtedly the advent of internet has changed the lives of the youth and the family as a whole. In addition to having a lot of benefits to those who know how to use it well, the effects and disadvantages are big that it seems to be evident in all kinds of relationships to be working, family, social, or even from a person who have known me but because he has seen on one of the social media, he can be horrible and even harm you. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. My neighbor told me how his friend was stolen from her home after writing on his Twitter page that after fatigue from work in the whole week, he has gone to the Shore and he will return at around the evening, because his wani was on her profile (profile details) then the reports were given enough explanation for the thieves to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_10673594 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Usia Iftar to the youth of Mbeya City "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rashid Mkwinda "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Usia Iftar to the youth of Mbeya City "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Vodacom Premier League is over, Mbeya City, a team that has received the popularity of its kind in this league have ended with the third position behind Azam FC and Yanga of Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is clear that this league has had a unique challenge to new teams especially Mbeya City which apart from being new in this league but has brought a lot of feelings of inspiration from the fans who previously before climbing to that team, most of them were involved in inspiration and fanaticism of political issues. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The history of soccer in Mbeya province cannot be completed without mentioning the teams that have ever done well in that league in the country like, Tukuyu Stars, Mecco, Tiger and Prison which all at different times were in that league and to give inspiration for the soccer game in Mbeya Region. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For this season of the league under Coach Juma Mwambusi Mbeya City has been able to make transactions and release the old teams in that league and to show the way of hope of doing well in this league as it was for their brother Tukuyu Stars which for the first time it climbed the bridge in 1986 and the same year to take the cup. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It was a history of being signed on the new generation of soccer in the country for the year 1986 where under the sponsorship Ramnik Patel (brother), Tukuyu Stars team which was popular with the nickname "Banyambala" "that was able to climb the bridge and took the championship and to show the surprises of the regional teams to take care of the teams of Dar es Salaam. So as to put well the history of soccer in Mbeya Province, it is good to mentioning the squad of Tukuyu Stars which broke the taboo and putting Mbeya on a soccer map in the country after winning the cup and succeeded to participate in the champions league of Africa and the East African Champions League in 1987 and managed to draw a 1-1 draw with the tough team of AFC in Kampala which was previously known by the name Abaluya. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The players formed the Tukuyu Stars squad under Coach Athuman Juma, they were the goalkeeper Mbwana Makata, the central defenders Ali Siwa, and Daniel Chundu, the youngest side of Godwin Aswile, Suleiman Mathew and Aston Pardon (late). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The body of defense Yusuf tag and Peter Mwakibibi, attacking midfielder Richard Lumumba (the late) and Kevin Haule, Vienna, on the side, Karabi Mrisho and Suleiman Mwankenja. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After being seen doing well in that league that team strengthened more of its registration for the previous year and added Australian players such as Asanga Aswile, Ali Mrisho, Salum Kabunda, Justin Mtekele (late), goalkeeper Joshua Kilale, Salum Kussi, Michael Kidilu, Jimmy Mored and Steven Mussa (Late). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Together with that success, Tukuyu Stars faced many challenges of his players moving to the big team of Yanga and Simba where the team witnessed its Australian players such as Godwin Aswile, Suleiman Mathew, Salum Kabunda, Steven Mussa and others left the team. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It should be remembered that Tukuyu Stars was a painful time for Yanga team which at the time it was successful to climb the premier league and took the championship of Yanga failed to tell the visitors where for all the two games they were scored by the team by 1-0 in the match that is being sold in Mbeya and 2-1 in the repeat match in Dar es Salaam City. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Due to the history of Tukuyu Stars that fell in the year 2008 under the current coach of Mbeya City Juma Mwambusi, there are basic issues that should consider to ensure that it will prevail in the league of the premier league for many years to come and even win the championship. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Together with the success that showed Mbeya City for the league season that ended yesterday there are many weaknesses that are supposed to be done and put the team in the success of the league in the next season. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In a total of 26 matches that it played in Mbeya City team has won 13 matches out of 10 matches that has lost 3 matches, has been closed a total of 32 goals and scored a total of 49 points was claimed the 3rd position in the league standings. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Until it ends the first round of that team as it was for the champions of this league season, Azam was never lost a game even one. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the second round of the league, such as which began to be exposed to the reputation which lost three matches, was scored by Yanga which in the first round, it was able to transaction and get drawn, being supported by Coastal Union in Tanga city and later lost an important match of being signed by Azam at the Sokoine stadium. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There are many that emerged in that match including rumors that emerged even before that match that Mbeya City has changed that match and that in the situation it is a must for Azam FC to win that match and ensure the championship before the completion of that league. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. If it was done in the first rumors of Mbeya City got into the field and seen playing under the level while his attackers were unable to join Azam's goal and caused them in the first time the ball was played at the stadium. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is a few times the players of Mbeya City were seen near the Azam's goal, a situation that some of the fans started to be afraid that perhaps the team can be defeated by Azam where one minute before going to half the player Gaudence Mwaikimba of Azam managed to write a leading goal for his team. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The second half started by seeing the life of the Mbeya City team, the instructions of the teachers started showing the hopes of the team to restore hope to the fans and finally 70 minutes a player of Mbeya City Mwagane Yeah managed to score that goal for the nodding. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The expectation of doing well for that squad started getting into the mistakes of the referee of that match, Nathan Lazaro of Kilimanjaro who was accused of carrying the Azam team assisted by his fellow artists Abdallah Uhako and Godfrey Kihwili from Arusha town. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The results of that game caused violence to fans even some of the players seemed to bear the referee, however, there are a lot of things to learn from that team from the whole flow of that league and the way it ends. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There are direct criticisms that Mbeya City should not escape, feeling after seeing it started getting fame, playing under the level and give Azam a win and win the cup before the end of the league. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mbeya City has yet to break the record set by their brother to Tukuyu Stars, it should be saving alternative strategies to strengthen the squad by honor the efforts of soccer stakeholders of Mbeya Region and elsewhere, who in one way or the other, they wish the team success in state and property. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. As a soccer stakeholder and sports journalist, I will not stop saying this so as to be the catalyst for development of this club which apart from returning the inspiration from soccer in Mbeya City has helped increase economic opportunities for the residents of that city where apart from the entries that are found in the door, many visitors from the neighboring provinces come to cheer the team. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mbeya City is supposed to learn from its predecessor who up to now seem to be sluggish in this league, it should be remembered that the Prison Team that lasted for this league a long time fell to the bridge in the year 2011 under the coach who is currently the coach of Mbeya City Juma Mwambusi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Until now, it is still continuing to breathe a machine for every season, it survived a bridge where this season showed off the bridge where it had completed the league with a total of 28 points with a total of 26 matches and scored a total of 25 goals, having won 6 matches and scored 10 matches and lost 10 matches. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mbeya City team is owned by the City Council of Mbeya where it has risen in the bridge this season of the league. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mbeya City squad led by coach Juma Mwambusi and players David Burhani / Geofrey Julius, Hassan Mwasi / Mohamed Sforehead, Hamad Kibera, Yusuf Abdallah, Yohana Morris, Christian Sembuli, Hamid Mohamed, Kenny Ally, Saad Kipanga, Mwagane Yeah, Deus Kaseke, Aziz Sibo, Antony Matthew, Yusuf Wilson, Francis Castor and Jeremiah John. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_78526139 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Vehicles that were arrested with illegal immigrants will be confiscated-Masauni "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Prisca Libaga, details, Arusha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 19 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government has ordered the Immigration Department to make sure that it supervise the law by supporting them and solve all the vehicles being used to transport illegal immigrants from outside the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Also, the government has warned those involved in the network of transporting illegal immigrants to stop immediately and find another job of doing because the government is keen to control illegal immigrants. That order has been issued by the deputy minister of internal affairs of the country Hamad Yusuf Masauni when he visited the border of Tanzania and Kenya in Namanga area at the end of the week, so as to see the challenges that are at the border and understand the real situation. Masauni warned the staff of that department that if the vehicle will be arrested in any area in the country having illegal immigrants through that boundary, they will have been lying to the government and revealed that their responsibilities will be defeated. He said together with the satisfaction of the actions taken by the immigration department of Namanga to control illegal immigrants, there are still a mouse that is used by those immigrants by partnering with a few students who are doing the work of moving them by paying wages against the law. He urged the department to use a few tools that include a few people who are in order to control the loopholes used by those immigrants. He also ordered a regular patrol and boosting inspections in cars to identify illegal immigrants. He said that the department is working in a difficult environment due to the shortage of equipment, the size of the boundary area thus he gave a call to the citizens to help bring out illegal immigrants. And Longido District Commissioner, Daniel Chongolo said the department is facing challenges that are there at the border due to the size of the boundary area thus it is unable to control the area fully. Previously, the head of that department in Namanga area, Abdalah Katimba said they are facing various challenges, including the shortage of workers and equipment. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_92346766 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Improve health and income by multrosely Patrick Jonathan, Mwananchi Rosella is a lot of supplements such as fold, and chocaine. For many years, this was widely used in the continents of Asia, South America, Caribbean and Europe. Rosella is one of the crops that have a lot of spending and in a different way. Some of their roselfish uses include making juice, wine, oil, selosi. Rosella is also used to prevent the body and various diseases such as cancer, liver and lack of nutrition. It also helps to reduce Bethlehem and treat blood pressure. What are the qualities of the roselfies? His leaves can be eaten as vegetables, their business and is used at home. You are growing and it reaches a length of 3.5 meters in the season. Stem cells and its branches have already been dropped, other features are football, and divided into three to seven places, next to them as a Portuguese. You have a green color, black to red. The flowers are great with red and yellow. It has a long root and give flowers at the summer. It is also accusing the land with chemical chemicals and the bottom as well as diseases. The type of rosella Zao la rosella has been given different types of names according to the areas and the people of the areas they were going to be good. For example, the red shirts are known as the choreat in Dodoma and other areas, while the coastal region of Tanzania is called a hell. Primarily there are two types of rosella Rosella is divided into groups (names) which are known professionally by people in different areas. Professionally is known as Hibiscus sabddfa: This is a rosella which has a red and yellow scarf. Those warnings are born. The other kind is Hibiscus Webster. This type of rosella is planted mostly for the hashtag (fibres) but the warning is not released. The way to improve their wives, this issue is affecting the Tropical storm between 1500 millimeters and 2000 for a year. There should be a total of 600 meters away from the sea. It is their distraction and moisture, flooding, strong winds and drinking water. Rosella is regarded as the soil of sand from the water that leaves me easily. However, it can grow in different types of soil. They require regular operations to remove the shadow and leaves. When you want to climb, you need baskets, fertilizer, soil, sand, while if you follow these steps; the land is good to go down to the amount of 20 centres, drilling holes in the bottle of 15 and Dar es Salaam. Crosses 11-22 hectares is good to climb the seeds to the lyrics, the organizers in the first month is very important. Fertilizer of natural fertilizer should be used and helps the production of changing crops is used especially because of the admiration that he has ended up in the root. You can change and green. For small farms at home, crosses and then take it into a 1-meter line. Fortunately, the seeds will be eradicated from a temple then you are on the farm with 1.3 meters to 2.6 meters and the lines of 2 to 3 meters. The diseases that are big for this is a fog (fungus): There are different types of fog that celebrates in the roots and leaves. Treat, moisture drugs that are used to control and remove fog on the produce as soon as possible. You can use drugs to protest before the explosion of fool. The supervision of the farm is important especially the organizers, cut off, washing, washing, replacement, fertilizer, control of insects. All of it is important in the preservation of the rosella farm so as to be sure of the best harvest. The fruit extraction and warning takes place three weeks after the flowers were killed. It is advisable to be warning after boiling the fruits. Courtesy of a tear gas "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_29387630 Apparently, how much of these Evidence has not missed a few thousand identity of Mercy or I don't know about ten years Mym mym mym mym Like those things, I saw that the accident is not something you ride from home when I woke up that we have to come to the accident is something you will come out, maybe I see no one let me work like that I am and our pressure is ka home everywhere. When we live in my in-law or the air that we have ever met. When I come to a little bit, I have a lot of days than going to stay again. You can mm here Then I met with ye by the way
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_82265158 Ohh, right now I will take this letter to the medicine I will go through if it is next week to let me take the same way that I don't let me do with them, you know it must be the first law we finish like? Mym Ehr you must not stop even if you don't even say the killing of AHH is not what we want there at this time. Ehr and I don't know whether you are with Jim. I am not iya that I have told you that I have never been away, I tell you. Ok and I have come from there at this time you can read is speculation of eating now We have
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_92863815 Twenty hundred thousand When I'm in Diana Diana is the food that I am at the cost I was gone to that person, the guy tells me just that you agree to me and I told me what he is gone and I am going to go to the evening we can face with you and I am not going to school. When you are in good luck, that person has told him to be the leg he tells you. Atlanta When we have arrived Next year I heard that I was in Town at the moment and then I was able to tell me that everyone went to me as I remember that there are those things we had talked about hours of the company that we will take place for now. EhorehI hear and hear. What's going? Ehr When we know we will appreciate the search of looking for the right time, we will not look at the youngest and when you get there, we will talk about what it will be the same to let us go to deal with that. Ehr AHH when I get back to tell me when you get when you get when you get you, it is the same but our things that you don't know when he is. When I tell you the 80s, the words he would buy and we are in school
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_91494283 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Buguruni Ward asks for improvement of the infrastructure "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. October 21, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The leadership of the Buguruni market have requested the Municipal Council of Ilala to stop bureaucracy and put open revenue that is found due to the collection of tax for traders to the leadership committee of that market so as to improve the infrastructure of that market. Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the chairman of the market Said Kondo said that the market has a total of 3,200 business people that were registered officially amid more than 1,000 attackers outside the market who have been doing business without paying tax. He said that action of the council is not clear to the market committee about the income that is found due to tax causes the improvement of the market. "The Buguruni market is facing challenges of destruction of infrastructure due to the buildings, a situation that causes many products in the market to drop the value due to the decade of rain or sun," he said. Moreover, he added that for now the real business situation in the market is not good, many business people have improved economically due to the circulation of money that it is not good. "Now, the prices of products are competitive, traders are selling depending on how they bought so that they get profit, the market is the competition to bring good products that will sell and bring bad products you will get losses and that business from farmers are coming as usual," insisted Kondo. Speaking about the reasons for some of the business people that run their businesses in the market without paying tax, he said that this is due to some of them to take the statement of President Doctor. John Magufuli that he made recently that business people "should not be left to do business. "As a result of this step, I requested the Ilala Municipality adviser to look at the possibility of to also seek official areas for all business people who intervened in the market contrary to the procedures so as to eliminate the existing congestion at the moment, especially considering this market, the window does not withstand the big group of people," said the chairperson. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_37247319 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. So the VIDEO of Snura has been confirmed to be broadcast on TV news story. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is possible that Ukawa has been surprised after seeing the silence after being introduced to the artist's video, but then not seen it over time on your television, the thirst of this question I got by listening to what he said that the right boss has not allowed his manager "HK." HK has started by saying 'gt; Twitter gt; "what happened is that the video of Jeville is a video we have made the thirst of our fans who have seen some things in the disaster." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Most of us have made a video of disasters they talked about so much, claiming that the video was not good, a normal video and the great reason was Snura has not seen a lot of pride in that video, when I saw that we don't have a video of my artist, I was not allowed to tell me, therefore, I don't know how the video is not allowed and it's not true they have not received a video, but I like the manager I have not received any letter saying that the video of my artist has been banned." "The first step that I will do is to go to TCRA and BASATA to know if this is banned, I know if I know if it is to renew the video or to give so pieces they say the things, then I should review the video." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17157881 They knew. The savings party and loans even twice the tacos spoke about the importance of employers in the country to encourage the workers to start saving parties and loans as a way to honor the workers, Chumi, giving a report from the general meeting of the year vice chairman of the SACCOs debate every time he has said that the establishment of TWO part of the work there is a lot to employ them to get affordable loans for economic and social activities. Rule of truth lawmakers have been given We were also looking for small and small loans, but as I do it. They registered a little it has reduced the answer we have reduced and has the answer. Campaigns distributors
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17121527 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. And Hamisa Maganga, who was in Nairobi to grow in technology has contributed significantly to improve the lives of one person and different nations in the world. But sometimes it can destroy the business of people who are still living in power, which contributes to intolerance. The International Company of taxi cars (Uber), recently found a huge popularity in Africa after causing a fierce conflict between them and taxi drivers in Nairobi, Kenya. When I was in the city for a working tour sponsored by Fastjet Airlines, I found myself in an interview with two rivals - taxi drivers who are used by Uber. In that interview I found a lot of things but the biggest thing is how Uber are ped to pay taxes in that country. The other is how they are throwing taxi drivers who are not normal claiming that they are snow and their cars are high. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The opposition against Uber and technology is common in Kenya, Uber has continued to improve due to attract customers for what they claim that they are paying affordable fares. The issue has made traffic drivers in Kenya's capital Nairobi, complaining and opposing Uber to enter the market. The risk of running those vehicles has been big until the police and the Ministry of Transport in the country was forced to intervene in the ongoing conflict between Uber and taxi drivers. Meanwhile, Uber continues to open branches in Mombasa Town. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The concerns of taxi drivers who are not normal Dogs from technology, says they can't say that Uber is bad because they can't compete with digital change. He says that the business is good because the employed are Kenyans, so if there was a youth who had no work to do, Uber has given the opportunity. "We know the change in the country is good, Uber's cars will consider the client's safety and the driver. "If people see Uber they put a bribe, it's not bad for other techniques to capture customers, they started their website that will help them get customers easily, but if we will continue beating then we should know that we are continuing to announce business without us knowing," says Kurdish. He says that Uber has come with great strength since their daily business has been thrown away from their vehicles and it has been known quickly than other companies that are in that country. He says there are many companies in Kenya that are doing that work but has not received the popularity as it is for Uber. He notes that due to the competition of business that is in that country, now Kenya is no drivers who are not faithful because coming from whom he is doing business is taking a stern action. Speaking about the income he gets in the day through that work, he says it is good though not much. "This business is good and it's paying differences and stay here without work. I would have for a Week I got around 12,000 (equivalent to 240,000 shillings), "he says. And Joseph Egyptians, says Uber is working without having a special station, something that makes the country revenue because they won't be taxed. He says that the business has also constructed the caste in that country because it notes the rich and the poor. "These Uber are good except those who made it wrong, the elderly who want to do this work fail because they can't use smartphones (modern phones). "But we have also inspected the vehicles, that is a car like this (showing off his car) does not work with Uber because its number is A," says Egyptians. He insists that the old vehicles will not be allowed and that they want new cars with number C and D. for example vehicles with number KCW, that is a good that is supposed to work with Uber. He says 50 percent of the owners of vehicles especially taxi drivers who are using their vehicles, an issue that makes it difficult for others to borrow because the criteria and conditions needed is difficult. On his part, Morrison told or, he says that they are working for justice because they pay a different tax with Uber who did not have something in the government. He says the government is supposed to come up with great strategies to ensure that it will improve these two businesses. "If the government wants peace is supposed to stay with us all so that we can talk about one language, or not things must come from poverty and the crime is not done. "We are paying for our colleagues not to pay, they work without any restrictions thus they are changing the business," says Kamau. "He says;" when they came for the first time we shocked the little, they cannot do business easily as they expect, they should be accusing them to know that they are annoying, but not fear this tensions will only happen. He insists that other companies that do work like Uber including Mundo, will TAX themselves have stickers of the council in their different cars and it is for Uber. Speaking about the issue of affordability, he says that Uber are not afforded because they are tired of distance while looking at the kilometers they used, and that if the road is a queue, it is a must for costs. He says that they agree with the customer before they begin the journey, therefore, if it is far, close to the road has queues, losses are usually a customer. "There is no conviction, again you can realize that they are above us. When I get a customer must I will look for a short message so that I can go back and look for another customer, but he can be able to take the procedures again in a different way so that the project has a lot of money, that is our difference, "says Kamau. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_97023909 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A mother, his son in Bagamoyo, the killing is rumored to be done by her husband for love, Julie Ngarabali, a Citizen in the Arab world @ scientanchi.corez Bagamoyo. Makongo resident in Dar es Salaam City, Oliver Erasto (22) and his child, Emmanuel Macwin (3) have been killed and slaughtered by their bodies abandoned at the Kaole village located in the district of Pwani province. Her husband Oliver, a win of those (26) a resident of Kawe Dar es Salaam, is accused of making the killings after accusing his wife to go and check the progress of construction of houses in the Kaole area with their child. The police commander in that province, Boniveture Mushongi said that the families went to a motorcycle that was driven by the ones. Preliminary reports claim that Mbappe had collaborated with a friend called Rajabu Tuesday (20), a resident of Makongo speaking at the event of the killings. Commander Mushongi said the bodies of the deceased has been reserved for Bagamoyo District Hospital to wait for the doctor's investigation and be identified by relatives. "The initial investigation has revealed the murder resulted from a love of love. The husband was accusing his wife for a long time to have a romantic relationship outside their marriage and a resident of Kawe, "he said. He said in that area where the killings were found in the bag, two mobile phones having two line and the motorcycle that was used for their journey from Dar es Salaam. The news officer of the Coast Police Force, Hassan Campbell explained later that the suspects were arrested the day before yesterday at three o'clock in the night in Zinga area, Bagamoyo while on the way they ran away. "Their footsteps were seen due to the bush, we collected the strength of the police and the citizens started a crackdown and we managed to arrest 3.30 pm," he said. The talk of Bagamoyo town, Bagamoyo, groups of people especially women were working to discuss the event, while many condemn and wanted the police force and the court to give a stern punishment for the suspects. "It's very sad, especially this young man. This is not a love of love, but it's the devil, what are you like to your fellow human beings too, "said Doris Baton. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_38088108 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I would be Jerry Muro, Now I would do this week ago, the Citizen's newspaper team did an interview with Yanga's chairman Yusuf Manji as two days after being elected to continue holding that position in that club for a period of four years to come in accordance with the constitution. In that interview, Manji spoke about various development issues and advice to the sports sector, politics and economy and giving a note. When I was among the team's team, among the things that I saw him out from his heart is an issue of being shown in the team's matches saying it has reduced the revenue significantly. He said the revenue have decreased since people are waiting to look for the ball in the bar and also in the 'wondering' people were looking for 500 shillings. Manji said it is good for the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to remain with their contract with Azam and they will not pay many shillings for every match so that they pay them and give them freedom. Manji went further by saying that it has caused a reduction of the cost of fans to go to the field and to reduce the club's revenue. Also, he complained about a few clever thought about the system of selling equipment such as jersey, snow, socks and bukta as a problem because they are making equipment with the logo of Yanga and using them to benefit themselves instead of the club. He said that in a large extent, Yanga has got a loss and forced him to increase 2.5 billion shillings to achieve different issues until winning the premier league championship, FA Cup, participation in the Champions League until the Federation Cup and now is a step of groups. Now, together with that Manji said in an interview, it is possible that it was recognized inside Yanga that there is a loss that has been found and a reduction in revenue. As a result of that situation, what should be done; it was in the mind of a harshman to fill holes in this Confederation Cup matches because it has already been found. For that situation, I would be the information officer of Yanga, Jerry Muro, I would manage this to take place: First, I would advise the formation of a committee to manage this income of people with integrity. You will not like the special cards that will be sold to special people for the purpose of contributing to Yanga and there is a match for the match. The cards would have been sold maybe by 1 million or more that it would also involve themselves as food or drinks, and it is in a special area. Secondly; I would have checked the fee of entries that because running the competition is a cost, those with the middle capacity and they will pay them as 200,000 shillings and they have their approach to their area. There are people who have bitterness for their team, they will pay them. Similarly, other areas can be 100,000 and 50,000 shillings and there will also be special services according to the funds of the people in that area. The area of all, here the entrance could be 10,000 shillings. I know it will be very high, but it is known, entertainment. Even in the European matches, basketball is expected to reach 10 million shillings. Third; we will get people to fill the stadium for the money? I would like to air the favorite radio broadcast, I don't want to tell you, it is known, every time the announcement is in the air as well as on TV, I would go to ask TV or radio sponsorship of those advertisements together with using sports programs to promote more than encing people. Four; Mara after going back, I would record the voices of players and send to radio, he describes himself and says her to encourage fans, even the coach and those who do not know Swahili, I would have secret behind their comments. Five; for a different day, I would have passed the press conference to explain the strategy of Yanga, as well as being defeated, the direction is short, why are they imprisoned and what is done. The last meeting I would have made today Monday, because tomorrow is to write Yanga that he plays with TP Mazembe, the big news I know it will be what I will be said and that will have planned to happen, the procedure of entering and everything related to the match, including those with special cards and special entries and others. Six; I could advise the leadership of Yanga to request the sponsors, Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) at least to do 'Road show' by yesterday, Monday and tomorrow Tuesday to Temeke, Ilala and Kinondoni to encourage, encouraging people to come to the field. Saba; I could advise leaders, they will also help at least sports newspapers through sponsors, to announce their products by providing advertisements for the match being adorned with pictures of the players, all is encouraging and inspiring. So, don't I take the stadium? Not only for this match, both matches. You are so many but for those seven, I believe that I will be helping Manji and his leadership and I have fulfilled my responsibility as the information officer spreading propaganda to promote the match and good for the club for the benefit of the club. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query4162 sanitation cleanliness
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_29075602 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The semi-finals of the union today "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 11 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The immigration team of Dar es Salaam today will go down in the pitch to play with Zanzibar Training in the semi-finals of the United Nations netball games at the cigarettes Stadium in Dar es Salaam city. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Immigration who are the champions of Tanzania Mainland of the First Division League has led in Group A while after leaving with all nine points. According to the chairman of the netball Association Tanzania (Chaneta) Any Kibira, another semi-final game that will bring together the Morogoro Police team and the Stars at the same stadium. The champion of the coalition league will be known tomorrow Saturday after being found the third winner in the game that will be held earlier on the stadium. Kibira said the competition of this year was a great excitement and the champion will be found after a fierce encounter. The League was driven by the group stage, where A group had immigration teams, J.C. Police, Police, Arusha and KVZ of Zanzibar. The group B was formed by Morogoro Police, Mining, Arusha, and Health, Training and Fire all of Zanzibar. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_16235083 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 23,004 mistakes in government in 690 / - "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Hellen Mlacky "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 28 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Police in the special unit of Dar es Salaam through his traffic squad has collected more than 690 million shillings, through road safety charges. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The police commander of that region Simon Sirro said that the fine is from October 18th to 25th this year. According to Sirro, the number of vehicles that were arrested were 20,833, the number of motorcycles which were apprehended were 2,171 and the buses which were apprehended were 8,435. He said that other vehicles that are private and the truck that were arrested were 12,398 and the motorcycle riders who were brought to the court for not wearing a helicate and parking lot in the desert were 96. Commander Sirro said that a total of the mistakes that were arrested is 23,004 and the money that was charged is 690,120,000 and therefore making it a source of revenue. He urged all citizens to comply with road safety laws to avoid unnecessary accidents causing injuries and sometimes deaths to innocent people. "Everyone getting into the road safety law will go down... with a motorcycle to ensure they wear hell and let the parking lot, we have been doing so the accident will go down," he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_80374306 It will help us there is a problem of fare for some of the operators when they lose the fare for those passengers and more from those who come from various provinces and even those who come from various provinces and even those who come from various provinces and even those who come from different provinces so that there is a little enemy to be given if Simba is a special one but some of the actors have been giving out different fare and incitement which I have used because of the current standards of transportation, they are looking for and solving this is worth now, we hope in one bus makes a journey from Kigoma. We are different but Masters in the country have been able to reveal that adriano has sold the fare for this different from the games provided by the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority for candles, this hour is available in one basements that were carried out in one of the areas in Kibaha town where he had gone. Is it It is: Childhood Announced at the age The Kigoma has seen Mido. They inspected the problems. The Kigoma has won us I have told them before two.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_73956424 Fidel Castro: He was David or Goliath? Dec 06, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The grave was buried Fidel Castro "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In 1959, Fidel Castro left Santiago de Cuba for a long convoy of vehicles to Havana. Nearly 60 years later, his remains were carried out in the same way, by coming back. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Hiba, which will continue to remain the leader is like David and Goliath in the Bible. He was a young man, a revolutionary man with a lot of moisters from a small island who fought with the intensity of the US. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That's the issue of charities. But not everyone's dream. And, in fact, not everyone can accept that Fidel was David or Goliath. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A photo of Castro's regime as David started to be seen during the invasions of Wacuba living abroad sponsored by the United States in 1961, in what had come to be known as Bay of Pigs. This photograph appeared again and again when Fidel was throwing stones and words against her neighbor, the great nation of America while being supported by his close ally in Russia and later Venezuela. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. And it's a photo that some Iranians - those who were impressed with the attraction and his ability to speak which she uses to show that they suffer for now is important as a long way to get a better life later - they have, at least for that time. That was mostly for those who benefited from the original development of the revolution and who lived in Cuba for the development of civilians. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They fought against the Fulgarian Batista dictatorship in the 1950s and took their lives in the war, continued to defend the revolution. They lived in joy when the dictator died and continued to follow Fidel. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For many who benefited from the expansion of education and public health services, Castro continued to be a respected person. And these development cannot be forgotten, because it was the fruit of suicide where Wacuba were doing every day. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Many Iranians who were not knowing how to read or write previously were able to learn to study in the campaign that took place after the revolution. The poor poor in rural areas, and those who had a history of working in the city, their status rose suddenly due to now knowing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But for many Iranians, the old David of the past turned out to be Goliath with a horrible twist. While Castro pulled the accusations of economic problems of his country to the United States instead of working on those problems with their own policies, some Iranians started to leave the country and went to find new life in the United States. Among his failed policies is the attempt by Castro to urge all citizens of his country to enter the sugarcane estates and start cutting. He wanted all, including doctors and farmers without caring for someone's work, going to the villages to cut sugarcane with the aim of reaching the harvest of 10 million tons of sugarcane, and at the same time insisting that Cuba's honor was at risk. The issue was impossible to reach his goal, and leaving Wacuba were tired and shocked. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is clear to many Cuban people who today live in the United States - and many others who have spread across the world, especially in Spain, South America, and Canada - Fidel wasn't David. But this was also clear for many Iranians who were in the country and started a low-down movement that had to risk their lives every day in a secret struggle to restore democracy in Cuba, even under the oppression of the government. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The movement was among the young people in the middle of the 1980s, including those who went to study in Russia and other European nations, after seeing them close to their trials in glasnost and perestroika to make a contender from inside. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Today, the movement involves groups like Timiento Cristiano Liberacion and the most known Damas de Blanco, a women who are walking on Sunday in the streets of Havana, wearing white clothes, and carry them, asking for the release of their husbands, children, or their brother, who were jailed due to being threatened by the presence of one party, the Patriotic Union of Cuba. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88761584 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Poem: On the end of their children Jul 05, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. If there is an incident that has shaken the nation last week is not a strike of doctors, but it will be kidnapped, tortured by an attempt to murder the leader of that strike Doctor. Stephen Ulimboka. Last night, the nation was ready and the beginning of the strike, the doctors found himself in another twist which has now begun to take it. That, there are people to be among us and people who can do anything to anyone and nothing to prevent it. Contrary to what has been said by Commander Suleiman Kova and a repeat of President Jakaya Kikwete, that the kidnapping is a new issue and it happened to the "first time" the truth is that it has now begun being normal. Whether it is the kidnapping of the political environment or intolerance. In politics we already know three cases that until now the perpetrators are not found. There is a case of the young man of Ubungo who was abducted last night in Igunga District. The young man called Mbwana Masoud disappeared in mysterious circumstances. He had gone to Igunga as one of the lobby of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA). It was not known where he is up to a few days later, his body was found abandoned with injuries that showed that the young man was shot down before being killed. Are there people doing their dirty tactics? Who will forget the incident of the members of parliament of CHADEMA being attacked on midnight and injured again being alleged in front of the police but nobody was arrested until now? What people have the courage of attacking members of parliament with swords without having some security behind them? Who is the security guards? An attack on the Doctor. Ulimboka indeed confirms that the phrase of evacuation of a person's meat doesn't go to the academic. The person has not tasted it, he would want to eat again. I believe there are people who have already lost this blood of activists and they can't stop. And because these people seem to qualify in the way of suffering and thinking that we should not expect the wrong people to be left active as it was to the Doctor. Ulimboka. This thirst of killing people is not new in our continent, nor the other parts of the world, especially where the leaders have no argument to defend themselves more than using force. Who will forget about Steve Biko in South Africa? It's not with him he was an activist who will lead young people to demand their rights to discover themselves who they deserve. Isn't it that the Cameroonian government saw him as their greatest enemy because he is sharing the minds of the people? She is not the one who was arrested in the hands of the police after being given a glimpse and suffering? Who has forgotten that Robert Ouko in Kenya whose body was found has been burnt - again this is getting a minister? People say the Julius Nyerere regime was a dictatorship. There is someone who can show someone who was born or a sequel of people whose bodies were hurt by suffering because the government or a group of people had been threatening. Oscar Kambona, Abdallah Fundheard, Kasanga Tumbo and others of Nyerere's opponents have lived and saw old age! Is today the youth in this style will see old age? Or all will have to be in exile to be safe? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Even if we accept the theory that all these actions (including Arumeru East) are made by hooligans, can we believe in any way that our government is prepared to deal with it? We have forgotten how the Albinos are being abducted and brutal and how it took time to our government to control those acts? More than 40 albinos have been killed and all have happened under the leaders of those - Kikwete State House, Mwema, as IGP and Rashid Othman as the head of national security. Who is thinking that this group will be able to control those acts of kidnapping. If I say that there is a possibility of other people to be hijacked again and that I'll be looking at or see from what happened and be able to reach a conclusion that we do not have a great ability to deal with these actions? What has raised more, and it seems that our citizens seem to accept, it is that crime issues are reduced to the commission. Some were against this since the EPA but now it seems to have been accepted that the crime helped the commission! But what is annoying more than those who are suspected to be involved are the ones who are ami for the commission! Isn't we seen in Songea? We saw Tabora? But why don't we learn and realize that the country will not be taxed or directed by the commission? If the commission would lead the country there would be no ministers or various institutions that have been formed to do what the commission could do. The commission is required to be formed by an independent body, it is impossible, for example, the police will be allowed to participate in crime and then the police should be in the commission especially if the ones being mentioned are top officials of that army. The commission of that way is the peak of the usion of the leaders. But the most terrible thing is that if it is true, there are people that are used by others to do things like this and it takes more than one week to the police to think to arrest anyone, then the threat of our national security is bigger than we can think. Think if it would have been affected by that issue is the minister or head of the province. Just imagine that one of the famous ministers that he disappeared and his morning was found in Mabahill bin taabani, kang is married and overnight have been married. Imagine if police and security had been a response that we have shown. Can it take five days or the creation of the commission? Truly the response of the president would be like this? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Or let's go ahead more - imagine who has gone to this way is a child of one of the national executive leaders who is mentioned to have been mentioned in the media or is involved with certain things. Then he was found in a condition that he's been found in the Doctor. Ulimboka, this is not the whole country we were told to find those who did that act? Actually, I think the feelings of some people that "the leader of the hunger strike" would be the same for the great child? This is a Doctor. Ulimboka reminds us that the corrupt people are not taboo. They should be corrupt in the government or outside, they do not know what to do. And because this is true I assure YOU that this is a Doctor. It is not the last one. Little and it will go above. These who have fun will find themselves and complain. It should be remembered that witches are killing the children of their colleagues and they will be required to kill them. And it's like those who like spilling the blood of other people. The day will come and that of them will be dropped as well. It is not written in a place that a living in Upanga will die in Upanga? Not to do it easily and think a Doctor. Ulimboka kicked off. If his life will be threatened because of this because he was hurt, then you need to know unless we live in different times. At times that there is no longer trust and everyone is to praise him even if it is one brother. It is not the same time to live in a "peace, unity, stability and solidarity." If they have been able to do this to a famous person like Doctor. Ulimboka, they can do with anyone else; if they have been able to do a lawsuit, it should be remembered even the people will undergo. The great thing is to look at the stories they will make sense for several times now the famous story is "was walking with a person's wife." If people think and believe these statements are provided quickly, then we have a big problem because our killers are sitting on us. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45495456 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The MRI will go back to Muhimbili "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Francophone Emmanuel "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 18 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. More than 52 patients have been given the MRI tests at Muhimbili National Hospital since it started offering that service on September 14th this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The machine that was in maintenance for three weeks, it was noted that the device called Gradient Module was destroyed, thus it was ordered a new one. While speaking to the journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the head of the Radiation Department in that hospital, Doctor Flora Lwakatare said that the machine is under the hospital in collaboration with the Philips company which is working to repair their costs when it comes to them. He said the device that was brought in, was ordered in the Netherlands and the technicians changed 31 battery which are for a long time and new closing so as to increase the effectiveness of the machine. "The MRI that has approximately nine years therefore, it is a must for equipment to be taught as it is in other machines. We also offer services to 40 patients a day and one person uses 40 minutes to get answers, "said Doctor Lwakatare. He added that the MRI had been renovated for a year twice and battles more than nine years, it needs to be changed or bought another because the equipment are wasting away. He also said that patients who are admitted are operated on the evening due to the congestion of patients who were there in the morning and afternoon. He clarified that, the cost of the referral patients who are in the hospital is 210,000 shillings, with 300,000 shillings to 450,000 shillings, private patients will be treated for 460,000 shillings. "The MRI has returned again since August 24th, this year it was reduced due to electricity error. Philips technicians in collaboration with our technicians, were looking for consequences and discovered. We ask the citizens that the services are back and is working 24 hours, "he said. The medicine doctor, Mussa Mgwatu, said the MRI is used to test the problems of the brain and the back of the back and it will not use radiation and he said that the body whose body has been put metal, he cannot use that machine because it has sumaku that can bring up the metal. The CT scan is regarded as pneumonia and uses radiation. But out of 10 patients who are being placed on the MRI machine, four are leaving treatment because of fear, "said Doctor Nducake. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88852941 We all remember that the child is spreading who is telling you for your information, I tell you all that I have told me that I am not telling me that I am going to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I would have to tell me that I am going to tell me that I would have to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am going to tell me that I am And I'm talking to who I was coming to think about it, you will tell you that he would tell you that I wouldn't know what he came to the elderly Adam camp outside. So many children know popular from I finished with your partner. By the time we have received, where are the other teams looking at what we sing we talk about where we talk to where we are talking to where we are talking to. In this world the second world speak up was you looking for you to look for you to give you a hand over your brothers, only the monotheism is here, I saw to kill that once a product to choose the citizens another leader we should be directed by the one who does not have problems even a bit, that is still the chairperson there is no way the leader is there. Known as they attended me to tell me that they are in the premier league. Wedding or names Guys we are very happy to have today in joy, everyone is happy and we are eating what I was given. On All those today As usual Mother Adam remember your father's skills in a fast speed of life The best has been bought as well as if the child thinks. Having been handed over again, most of us thought that many of us thought He has been given Drinking to tell you Destroy it, we will not be different And ours All of us know this as required.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_75520784 President Magufuli added that Kilimanjaro Queens "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Genofeva Matemu - WHUSM. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 21 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. President Doctor. John Pombe Magufuli, has congratulated the players of the women soccer team of Tanzania Mainland, Kilimanjaro Queens by writing the history of being the first champions of the Championship of Chalchange in the East and Central African countries (CECAFA Challenge) that took place in question in Uganda. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kilimanjaro Queens has succeeded to win that Championship after defeating Kenya (Harambee Starlets) by 2-1 goals in the final game that took place yesterday on 20th September 2016. In those congratulations made by the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Mhe.Nape Moses Nnauye, President Magufuli has said that Kilimanjaro Queens has written a history that it has paid the nation and it has raised the morale of athletes to perform well in competitions. "Honorable. Minister Nape Nnauye, I request that to reach a lot of congratulations to players of Kilimanjaro Queens, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), teachers and leaders of the team together with all stakeholders who contributed to organizing our national team of women which has finally got the championship in this big tournament. "I have been much happy with this championship and I request the players of Kilimanjaro Queens and other sportsmen here in the country to take this victory as a challenge of increasing efforts in our games so that the country is not going to get the championship of Chalchange but also the victory in games and many other competitions that are involved," said President Magufuli. President Magufuli has also requested all Tanzanians to continue supporting athletes and encouraging players because their achievements are announcing the country and have a great contribution in development. Previously the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Moses Nnauye has congratulated the players of the national soccer team of women in Tanzania Mainland, Kilimanjaro Queens on behalf of the government and Tanzanians for the good work they did until being the first champions of the Confederation of African Football Association (CECAFA). Minister Nnauye has given those congratulations when he spoke to journalists today in Dar es Salaam city. "If the government is good to congratulate our team of Kilimanjaro Queens for representing well in Tanzania in the CECAFA competition and emerged winners by being able to jump with all those that had been in that tournament," said Nnauye and added: "The government will continue to put enough power and to join our teams to help them make sure they do better in different games." Nnauye has said that Tanzania starts to see the fruits of the long-term investment because it was not an easy job for Kilimanjaro Queens to reach the finals and be the champions for fighting a hard team and be able to win. Moreover, Nnauye has promised the players of Kilimanjaro Queens to invite him to parliament in the next parliament to congratulate and organizing a friendly match between them and the women members of parliament to recognize their contribution to fly the Tanzanian flag. The teams that participated in the competition of Chalchange Cup of CECAFA is Tanzania, Burundi, Zanzibar, Kenya, Ethiopia, Rwanda and host Uganda. The Champions League Cup competition for women teams have taken place for the first time, something that is translated in the tournament can uplift the women's soccer in the East and Central African countries. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35397603 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tullow provides food aid and Sammy LUTTA 18,881 children of nursery schools in the Turas county have started to benefit from food aid from Tullow oil company. 141 schools from Turas South, Turas East and Turas Central have received the meal which is supervised by the Red Cross in the country. The chief officer of that organization, Turas Mister. Nicodemus Okango said that those schools have never received any food support. "This has caused many children to remain at home and it is known that without food is difficult to have studies in the school," said Mister. Okango, adding that food aid is still needed for Turas residents. That officer was speaking yesterday when he launched the program which will take three months at the nursery school of KAG mountains in the district of Turas South. "We bought 100 kilograms of maize, 30 000 shillings of beans, 3 500 cooking oil, and 2000 for salt and ensuring that every school has got its share." Said Mister. Okango. He requested the teachers in those schools to ensure food has been used well so that it will be required for a required time. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_63495655 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Whites on Facebook to trial Kikwete Nov 30, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While many of Tanzania seemed to use the personal page of President Jakaya Kikwete on Facebook to send greetings, people with the origin of Europe and the United States have been seen to use him in court for poaching actions that continue in the country, it is known. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. President Kikwete is in the United States continuing with treatment after being operated on male gland surgery (prostate) and he has been communicating with Tanzania with different ways of communication through phone and social networks. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, while many Tanzanians use that communication opportunity to give Kikwete greetings to condolences and wish him quickly, people whose names show the origin of Europe and the United States, have been seen to use that opportunity to say that they are annoying. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For example, one person who introduced himself by the name Jeremy Gregory, wrote on that page that he will not visit Tanzania as a tourist if the government will not stop the killing of elephants. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "I will not visit your country until when your government will show sincere efforts to fight poaching. I request that I promise that I will inform many people as possible about the ongoing violence in your country so that they can't get it. Until now your leadership hasn't really impressed me, "wrote the man. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Another person, Niala Orsmond, pointed out about the news spread on social media about the hashtag from Arab countries to kill animals without following procedures. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Do you have a shame? So, Dubai's ankle family is allowed to kill any animals that you want to pay the money? Do you know that the elephants or Simba are ending cannot be returned to money? Do not get money more than life, "said the lady. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A lot of messages from the people that are seen are of the United States and Europe seem to be depending on the tourism issues, with Tanzania showing more caring about the health of their leader. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For example, a young man who introduced himself by the name Abkary Yondani told President Kikwete the following words; "Pole so much the father of Tanzania... God will pick up and you will see." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. President Kikwete is among African presidents who are known for regular use of social media and is among the leaders with many friends on the networks in the African Continent. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. President Kikwete, according to the report from the Director of Communications of the President - State House in Dar es Salaam, is expected to return to the country on Saturday, November 29th, this year, if all the treatment issues that he continues in the United States will go well. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_67532612 Believers of different religions in the country have been requested to pray for the nation of Tanzania to continue having peace and being a corner to pray for different leaders to have the heart of public service to the public That call has been made by the wife of the prime minister's gift, Pinda when he was closing the women and essay conference, I request for mourning the three days of taking place at the Christian Centre located in Sinza in Dar es Salaam, a conference that has involved approximately seventy women and preachers from South Malawi and America. The country needs prayers In what I am not two The church of the church know that the mourning will come. Our families And so I am
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_44697533 And almost again a Buddhist reader has given our news report and now it is the news that was given a high position tonight. Where specialist doctors at Muhimbili National Hospital today has been a meeting with the executive director of the hospital Not minutes Marina Njanced Talk about other things the strike is going on in the hospital Don't stop that hospital, Doctor Aligaesha said the meeting doctors are protesting in finding a solution to some of the doctors who are continuing to strike in the hospital. And form a special committee for the purpose of meeting with Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda The revelations after the news was given a high position in our report. When we go back, we will bring him the sea Various affiliation for a short break
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_22799133 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ambassador of Egypt is to encourage investment "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Katuma Masamba "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 09 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government has been advised to encourage more investors to come and invest in various sectors in the country so as to grow the country's economy faster. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, the Egyptian government has said it has been doing awareness to the business people of that country to come and invest in various sectors in the country including the health sector. That has been explained by the Egyptian ambassador in the country, Yasser Elshawal while speaking to this newspaper in his office in Dar es Salaam yesterday about the humanitarian aid that was given by the government for the victims of the Kagera earthquake. He said Tanzania's economy is growing by seven percent per year, but the government can increase the growth by opening doors to more investors. He added that Tanzania is doing very well in the issue of the growth of the economy and that it can look at what is doing so as to attract more investors and grow the economy in the country. "My country has an intention of encouraging Egyptian investors to come and invest in Tanzania for the benefit of both sides," said Ambassador Elshawal. Speaking about the donations, he said his country has given donations for the purpose of helping the victims of the earthquake especially considering the relationship that is between Tanzania and Egypt. "It is a donation that was given by Egypt for the purpose of Tanzania who were affected by the earthquake in Kagera province," he explained. He said the Egyptian government has given medicine, other medical equipment and tents worth 70,000 American dollars which is equivalent to 140 million shillings. "Those equipment already have already handed it to the prime minister's office, the department of Maafa for the purpose of being transported to Kagera," added the ambassador. The aid was made by the Egyptian Cooperation Agency and the Egyptian Red Cross. On September 10, this year 17 people died and 440 others were injured due to the 5.7 magnitude earthquake using the "Richter." The earthquake also destroyed 2,063 houses while another 14,081 houses were in danger after getting a crack. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_38565498 And If he is someone who wants to open that disgusting. When it cuts the cuts to other mangoes is not saying there. Mym halo llt; hes tgt; products of manguo are but has caused the mangoes that it means when going to and sometimes it goes even so I don't agree with you as people get a salary at the end of the month or they are going to go for a holiday as we go to Christmas is the people take their clothes Okay and now mi wanted to start the manguo business and put it as the end of the month is the end of the month. Mym mym Yes
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_99720900 To shock the pour in a myard mym, a place is not very skilled, that you can't go away from what we are doing. That's a non-architect Mister mi is a translators I was tired, closely closely, I went back to the city and wanted in the city at ten o'clock and headed to home He was a very good home if we heard from the above has taken this man's brother tomorrow, Majaliwa will not make you a lee then later he starts work. Mym ehr Who's going to the person to Easter, there is no one that can only leave you only let you see if he started looking at home. Ehr why did you know why mm AHH completely heard these mym mym, we heard we were here in Town when there is no matter where we are talking about, we are talking about something that is everything we do. Let alone try to let you try or luck to your colleague, there is no even mi how I want to come from Masai I can go back to next week or Tuesday. Mym Mym Okay is the same problem but I do not know I am doing the record of what mm mi today is the same as today is okay, I'm still in the process they refused to get out of the neighborhood that he has told me that he was still in prison Richard was buried first when I was told and said that it is wrong. So the effects and then the Story I told me or the way it is okay, then what will happen again? Mym Because you have talked to him in prison, you know the number there is what happened this time and the result? Ehhe for jam Mym It is Majaliwa the house now claims that Diana wants? Am saying now you use the money of soap If it was yesterday you can use the money to you, Sam ehhe ehhe ehhe and since it's not yesterday the bride or his fiance should speak up with mym ehhe not you know he has voting for the Mercy, let's try to vote for a no longer available, you will make you make a mm. If he can use the money they buy tomorrow, I can speak up with them, we can talk to them with a cigarette in many things. His is not where he left his grandmother at home, right now not to visit her. Of Mercy girls still Jo ehorsa mi is like when I lost your number, it's like the number I lost even at this time I want to drop this time I don't know how to drop this time and then get down and go down, what will happen round about no round about the ten pipeline to go. Mym ohh as you fall down today at Thika road road. Like that, I was telling you that you must know it near because the Job I told you Those smart
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53656854 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Sellers of farms in the dock for fraud, two farms yesterday were charged with receiving more than 50 million shillings from an investor claiming they would ignore the piece of land in the street Karen. Miss Lucy Muthoni Marete, popularly known as Sarah Anzazi and Mister Johnson Kigundu came before the chief judge in the mountains of the mountains, Miss Hannah Ndung'u and denied the charge against them. He was accused that they received money from Mister Samuel Njau claiming they had a farm which they would not ignore. They were charged with the money between December 5, 2013 and March 18 this year. The second charge against them is that they made a certificate of land ownership. Miss Ndung'u told them they will be accepted to submit a request for the release of bail on June 3. By Richard Mungai. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_85392717 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Scolari is accused of not paying $285 million in Brazil, Luiz Fellipe Scolari uses the head after accusations against the evasion of tax emerging as the day continued to any other before the World Cup started in the country. The officers of the National Security Council of Portugal, have claimed that the 65-year-old trainer, was involved in a certain level that helped to avoid paying taxes when he was the head coach of that nation, and now they are investigating for the purpose of getting evidence before making the charges. However, Scolari has denied the claims, insisting that he should pay his million taxes on how he is needed anywhere in the country, he would have ever done coaching and if there is a problem then it will not be on his side. "I hope the truth of things is revealed, I have to pay my tax fully in all nations that I have worked. If there is a crime, then it will not be from my side, "he also tweets. Scolari owes a total of 284 million shillings he ped to pay in Portugal. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98193128 AHH know he went to do so, to say until it happens to imagine if we were done to me the water is where he did until it happens. Who cares? Ati is back there is no one who is working up until I had a cry for the house because I had refused to stay. Ehorsa will make our return to the mother and mother That's their job here, I am saying you should look at if they are, I want to go to lie to you. Ehr Mercy and Edu AHH, who is a mother who's going to go is to find that she is killing him on his door even the same. Bena this ehr Women come to know and ye until the ashtag
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_87162876 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Young people to work on Friday "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 07 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The semi-finals of the premier league of youths under 20 years is expected to kick off the day after tomorrow where Simba will battle against Stand United at the Azam Complex stadium in Chamazi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That league involves the youth teams of all teams participating in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League. That game has been planned to play at 4 o'clock in the evening by Azam against Mtibwa Sugar. Those teams have opposed the semi-finals after beating - finished the group stage where they were two. A group that won that step is Simba of Dar es Salaam and Mtibwa Sugar and Morogoro and the group B which was using the Kagera station that had qualified are Azam and Stand United. Information officer of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Alfred Lucas said yesterday that the finals of the competition at the end of this week. That league was launched officially on November 15th this year if it is sponsored by DTB i bank where every club was given 10 million shillings and broadcast live by Azam television station. In Dar es Salaam city there were JKT Ruvu, Simba, Ruvu Shooting, Ndanda, Majimaji of Songea, Mtibwa, Mbeya City and Prisons. Kagera station there were Azam FC, African Lyon, Mbao FC, Toto Africans, Mwadui, Stand United, Kagera Sugar and Yanga. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35269091 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kabila urges changes to the port "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Halima Mlai "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 05 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The president of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Joseph Kabila has noted the changes that began to be seen in the port of Dar es Salaam, and assured Tanzania that the country will increase faster than the use of that port. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Until now, according to President John Magufuli, the cargo that goes through the port from the country to DRC has increased by 10.6 percent while the business between those countries increased from 23 billion shillings in the year 2009 to 396.3 billion shillings last year. In addition to that, DRC and Tanzania have signed an agreement of an agreement to do research on the oil in Lake Tanganyika, which will be found to be generated, will be transported through the oil pipeline that is expected to be built from Uganda to come to the country. Speaking to journalists after finishing his talks with President Magufuli, at State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday, President Kabila said his country is ready to develop the economic and business relationship that is between the two countries. "DRC uses the port of Dar es Salaam for a large extent to transporting its cargo, but I confessed that in the past years we had problems with this port, but in fact, the situation is different because there has been a big change of services in this port which gives us heart," said President Kabila who arrived in the country the day before yesterday for a three day tour that ends today. He said that the situation is continuing in that port, it is clear that in the coming days, it will be the best port in Africa that will be used more, not only by the few East African countries, but even the western countries. He said geographical, DRC on the east by four countries which are Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Tanzania, but among those countries approximately 50 percent of the business of Congo is doing with Tanzania. He said that he is impressed by the way the fifth term government has organized to improve the services of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), including collaborating with the dry port in DRC, an issue that will make it easier for business between those two countries. "I am happy to see you launch this building that will create one station of providing port services. I have faith in our business and Tanzania will rise...... "as together with other businesses, DRC we produce bronze, last years we are producing 100,000 tons to 150,000 shillings but now due to investment we are producing one million tons to one million and a half million, therefore I have faith that we will continue to cooperate in this transport area," he insisted. Speaking about the oil contract that was signed by ministers of both countries who are the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo and the Minister of Oil of DRC, Ngoi Mukena, said the contract is a good start of cooperation between those countries in the oil area. He said that for now Africa has started to discover many areas with fuel, giving an example his country of DRC that discovered oil through Lake Albert and Uganda which has completed the talks of the construction of the oil pipeline that will go through Tanga. Together with that, President Kabila also spoke about peace and elections in his country, where he insisted that his government is ready to assure the citizens of Congo in the elections that will be held or this year or next year. "I would like to take this opportunity to put it open and against a lot of rumors of the media that the situation is bad in DRC. I assure the citizens of Congo and the East African Community (SADC) that the state of Congo is safe and there is peace, "said President Kabila who came to power in the year 2001. He said that for now in that country, there is a state of anxiety in that country due to close to the election period, a situation that is normal for any country. "My Government has planned to hold talks and talk about this issue. We want elections to take place by considering the basis of democracy, freedom and peace, "he said. However, he admitted that in that country there has been a security problem through small rebel groups who often have been doing attacks, including kidnapping of people and thanking the government of Tanzania for being one of the countries that have taken its troops to help restore peace in that country. On his part, President Magufuli admitted that the state of Dar es Salaam port has changed due to the great efforts that the fifth phase government has allowed including removing all servants who contributed to destroying the environment of the port. "It's true in the past years, there were people that saw them are gods, they abused their power, tortured until putting money in their cars without caring for the interests of Tanzania. I assure you Honorable President Kabila in the fifth term, things like this will never happen, "he insisted. He said among the things that he spoke with that president, he has agreed to increase the participation of DRC to pass its cargo because up to now DRC has succeeded to increase the cargo that goes through the port of Dar es Salaam by 10.6 percent. He said in addition to removing the bureaucracy problem in that port, the government has reduced the payment of restrictions to the business people that pass their belongings in the country by reducing the number of funds to inspect goods and reach three balance, that will be in Vigwaza village, Coast Province, Manyoni, Singida Province and the Nyakahura in Kagera province. "But I have also told TPA that they have agreed to remove the business people of DRC by adding time to put their cargo from the port from 14 days to 30 days," he said and added that in improving the business environment in the country, the government is also in its budget for the year 2016 / 17, it has set aside a total of one trillion shillings for the construction of modern railway that will be connected from Burundi to Isaac which will also reduce transportation costs for the business people of DRC. In addition, he asked President Kabila to follow and take action against all those who are reported in the tax and customs unit of the DRC for bureaucracy in order to create more environment between those two countries. Regarding the oil contract, President Magufuli said the agreement between DRC and Tanzania, will make easier the fuel that will be found in the Lake Tanganyika being transported through a pipeline that is being constructed for fuel from Uganda to Tanzania. Speaking about the issue of defense and security of DRC, Magufuli said in his conversation with President Kabila, has confirmed to him that in that country there is a security situation and that the government is prepared to ensure that the elections are taking place in peace and follow the foundations of democracy. "For now, they are in the registration process in the voters' register, because this country is expecting to have a total of 45 million voters in the last elections, 35 million people have registered to vote for votes," he said. In addition, he said that he has accepted the request of the president of wanting to follow the peace situation in that country and noted that through his position of the chairperson of political parties, defense and security of SADC (Troika), has ordered ministers of foreign affairs from three countries to evaluate the real security assessment in the country. He said those ministers who will go to DRC is the minister of foreign affairs from Tanzania, Angola and Mozambique. In addition, President Magufuli said in his talks with President Kabila, he has explained his intention of wanting the DRC to join the East African Community and asked him to present his official letter so that it can be discussed by other members of that community. President Kabila launched the foundation stone of TPA building, popularly known as one stop center, that will be used to provide all the port and TRA services. According to the executive director of TPA, Deusdedis Kakoko, the building of 35 apartment building is the last long building in the East and Central African countries. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_87682481 Let's stop tension, Doctor. Mwakyembe, Ray C to support this war, Aug 21, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For a period of months and several weeks now, as a nation we have continued to hear news (which have been there for many years) about the growth of drug trafficking. That this business is mature and having a big network in the country is a clear truth. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There are facts or issues, which doesn't need to have a degree to any Tanzanian to recognize; it is known and if it works will be a great move to overcome this disaster. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. First, the true truth is that for now, drugs is a problem that has affected many Tanzanians especially the youth. In the streets of cities such as Dar es Salaam, Arusha, and Mwanza and several other cities, for a person who is confusing and different kinds of people will realize how many people were using these drugs. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. As he said a musician who has ever seen a lot here in the country, Rehema Chalamila, popularly known as Ray C when he made an interview at Clouds TV station recently, many people have been affected by drugs and drugs. There are students of different levels like secondary and universities, business people, artists, workers and many others, including the most respected people in the community. Some are known, while others are doing a lot of attention. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Despite that, more than 200 people have been jailed and even sentenced to death in countries such as China and Hong Khon (according to various media houses in the country and internationally) after the arrest of drugs is an illustration that the situation is bad. The victims of all these are brothers, sisters, aunt, and our brothers; and it has been a great shame for our nation. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The second truth about the tragedy is that there is a lot of gays among the many Ugandans in this disaster. That, there are a lot of pressures on this issue to an extent that even those who have good intentions in the fight against this disaster are broken. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For instance, those with interest in this business have been using propaganda in various platforms, such as media and government agencies to spread the idea that fighting this disaster is very dangerous! In this, it is used to examples that the business situation has reached out to be a very big network, to the extent that the anti-fighting can even lead to the government! "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Those spreading these propaganda want to prove to the public that the situation here is like in other countries like Mexico and Columbia. In these countries, by taking appropriate measures early to deal with the growth of this business (if it is continuing to improve here), has caused the situation to be bad. In those countries, the networks of this business is big involving many big leaders in the government, the presence of groups or "army" (outside the government, for the purpose of protecting the interests of this business) and people with great financial and influence. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. With the aim of weakening the fight against this business in the country, they have dared to involve the deaths of some people as a result of the people "living in front of the tragedy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In general, even if there are true cells in these allegations, what is clear is that they are used propaganda and many claims to be able to weakening the many efforts undertaken by the disaster. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, these propaganda is sarcastic to various government agencies, and even the Tanzanian community in general because they have the aim of showing that the participants of this business are about the law and that they have reached the move of not touched by any authority. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Another truth about this disaster is not responsible for leaders in different levels, in the fight against this problem. Normally, as several people are concerned with the authorities in ministries and departments (with direct connection with this issue or otherwise) such as immigration, police, national security and others but the situation remains critical, this raises several questions. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is possible that those authorities are among those who benefit from this business, and therefore participating in removing it is equal to cutting the flow of their benefits. Or, they may be not benefiting enough but it is apathy and not fulfilling their responsibilities accordingly that is causing the maturity of this business. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_59743221 Your news, your stories is very important to be with you and from your television, I know many of you that you are tired just back when I am tired to consider my sincere condolences to you and you don't get a soda drinking coffee, here is your colleague I hope for Meshack I am and you are afraid to download the download. Today, I don't want to say so much a man to have long names are unable to be sent out, there is a way there you go to clothes at the same way you will give away from them okay then if the canary we start with the newspapers and the first newspaper says that Ukawa should be with each other because they saw them wearing as the maize committee. Wearing a sister but you feel that Ukawa are wearing a snap where you get the picture right Now. Members hundreds. They have moved to CHADEMA Ehhe in Kigoma There is a power that will be found in Ukawa Absolutely. I don't know the property of the citizens because the members asking for Mandela to believe that he can move to another party to do things in talk to Masai that doesn't give you so that you are saying that the names says then you come to me, the names of the game as usual when you say the star of buckets a week I need now, I don't know what he decides on the topic when people lovers of football feel like this one has gone to football. The stars pay tribute to the commission that we are normal A short time ago to show the extent that the young man was still not heard. If you look at this time that other matches were played seven. Ended he was hurt then I'll see today For someone who is a view that looks at things they know this You are destroying the same, we listened to Tanzanians to sign up on a bit of pressure and then we will start with our first topic in today's day.
query1178 poultry
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_32520154 And you ask the Story of ushago coal doing? AHH millions my children are all this time he should use he is looking for a day And where you said it is not that I am not interested in money to go to school he has already received or yet. Even though it is the best to shine and hungry is still the councilor and hungry to go to the counselor at this time he is going to form even though he is claiming that I will follow him with food. And a child went to school. And Terko was going to form a coup, he says he wants to build up or still and that was what I was about there was another donation, I want to get the device to register the name that he wants to let me know that he can get that money to borrow for the same riders. He was so cool. Now when I come up, we will talk a lot. When I still do it. They have rejected all the chips.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_50103689 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Madaba Director ordered the inspection of drug shops "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Muhidin Amri, Madaba "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 14 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The executive director of Madaba District Council in Songea district, Still Mpenda has directed the chief physician of that council, Doctor Mustafa Minister to conduct regular inspection in the shops of private individuals to identify the shops that sell government drugs. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In addition, he urged them to ban all shops that will be known to sell medicine for use and take action against its owners so as to stop the behavior of those business people who are cooperating with the workers of the health department to steal medicine. Mpenda has given that directive while inspecting various shipments of drugs that were purchase by the health department, that will be distributed to the clinic and all health centers together with the renovation of a special storage room at Madaba Health Center. According to him, the health department has a legal responsibility to ensure that every owner of the medicine shop is focusing on the law, regulations and procedures that are available for selling correct medicine for human use and avoid selling drugs that are required to be in the clinic, health centers and government hospitals. He said that step will help to save the lives of citizens who are a big economic pillar, because without good health there is no work of production that can be done, something that is dangerous to the economy of that council. He said, some of the owners of the shops have a dirty game of selling counterfeit drugs, an issue that can contribute to poverty because the citizens when they buy those drugs are unable to heal and cause a citizen to use another amount of money to buy medicine which could take them to other services. The chief physician of that council, Doctor Mustafa Minister said that for now he is proud to see in the clinic and all health centers in Madaba Constituency there is no shortage of medicine. The District Council of Madaba has 14 clinics, 10 governments and four governments of religious institutions together with three health centers, among them two Madaba and Ndelist centers that are owned by the government and one that is owned by the Catholic Church. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_95188551 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For Zanzibar not a magnitude, even Uskochi are Jun 01, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Last week, first Minister (first Minister, rank which is as Prime Minister) of Uskochi, Alex Salmond, launched the campaign of the Scottish Nationalist Party (SNP) to mobilize the "No" in the referendum (opinion polls) for freedom of this country that is expected to take place in the future. Uskochi's argument with Britain (in the sense of what is called the United Kingdom of great Britain-England, Uskochi and Wales- and Northern Ireland) has been upset for a long time and has got more strength after Salmond and SNP came into power in 2007. Basically, the main policy of that politician and his party was to ensure that ultimately Uskochi is building away from England. When he came to power, the SNP explained that they have a plan to make a referendum to hear the reactions of Somkochi about the idea of secession. However, an obstacle that they have been facing, since the beginning is the fact that despite the differences here and there, it is difficult to sketch the line to divide the Sunchi and other Britons. The clashes in nearly every aspect of life makes these people become one more than different. And while preparing this post, Salmond has got a "bad news" from the prosecutor's opinion) popular here in England, Peter Kellner, President of YouGov's referendum. According to Kellner, a referendum conducted by YouGov last Friday shows that while only 33 percent of Somkochi want "freedom" (secession), 57 percent want Uskochi to remain part of England. The opinion prosecutor has warned Salmond that "he has a long mountain to climb" to reverse the majority of the Somalans about their country's secession and Britain. Likewise, he explained that there are "several threats that can contribute to many people to oppose the idea of secession, and he gave an example of arguments like investors to withdraw from Uskochi (in lack of sure if Uskochi will decide to use the currency after secession, Britain can start a crime (austerity measures) that will affect the economy of Uskochi. In addition, Salmond has publicly revealed that other fear that threaten Sunchi to support the idea of secession is together with the high cost of running the country (especially during this period where the world's economy is known) such as sustaining a full force, embassy offices and the cost of running public service institutions (Civil service). Basically, in any exercise of voting, the state of not sure or fear of "in front of how it will be" enough to make many voters decide to remain in the party or the current structure (if it is a referendum on certain thing). This strategy is being used by the ruling party (including CCM) in the elections where the message is like "we are not in the bowl." (In the meaning of the party you know is better than what is promising only without having the active examples of the leadership of the country). However, Salmond and SNP are continuing with their efforts while making sure that the great wealth of Uskochi (there are oil in the North Sea) will enable them to afford the cost of running the country if Somkochi will agree with the idea of separation with Britain. Meanwhile, Uskochi, at the end of the week at home has been faced with sad news where the protest against the coalition in Zanzibar turned into a massive riots. As I explained in my message of Global Voices articles (audio Messages, that can hear here http: / / goo.gl / r6ngT), the riots in Zanzibar and the whole issue of union is supposed to be monitored with a broader view. Personally, I see that the origin of the problem of the United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar is its founders, that is the late father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Abeid Karume. Here I request it should be understood. The idea of the coalition was good for considering different reasons, the largest, as the closeness of the roots of the mainland and the Island. But the problem that maybe was contributed by the political environment at the time, Nyerere and Karume thought that their consent was representing the consent of the people of Zanzibar. There is a "wisdom" one of the English saying that "a good thing is not a must to be beneficial. For example, while giving a lot of food to a hungry man is a good thing but his results can lead to even the death of a hungry man who threatened to get a lot of food. " Yes, eating a lot of food is dangerous, and that is why people pass away or they have not seen a long time begins food to a hot drink (ridge or tea). Now, the idea of the union was good but not to get the consent of many that is where you are there now. For a long time there has been complaints about the union, especially among the people of Zanzibar. The main argument has been that they are broken, they are oppressed and the others are going further and claimed the aim of the union was "to grow Zanzibar." Unfortunately, the politics of Zanzibar have a difference in a certain level and in the mainland. In the Island, religion has a unique opportunity in politics. So, most of the political issues can also carry religious sentiments, something that without crime can negotiate. I would like to insist that together with the dangers that can come out in mix religion and politics, experience and history have shown that the wisdom and the interests of the community being placed in front of personal feelings, religion may not have effects in politics. In the United States, for example, religion still has a unique opportunity. Perhaps the best example of how religion can not destroy politics is Germany where the Kansela Angela Merkel (Christian Democratic Union-CDU) is a Christian. Cold is the largest political party in the nation. Likewise, the ruling party in Turkey, Justice and Development Party, AKP, is a Muslim party. However, that party has succeeded to make Turkey continue to be a non-religious nation. Even here in the United Kingdom, the Queen who is the head of the country (respect) of the Anglican church, and although Christianity is as a "national religion" but the country is run by a "global religion" and not religious. However, the problem of religion is the fact that despite touching the personal feelings of believer, religious issues do not require scientific confirmation (or global). Unlike religion, politics is the issue of more ideology than faith (although faith in ideology can make the supporters of the party see the importance of religion). Likewise, religious issues include "future life after all of the world" while politics is focused on current issues or not here in the world. The tragedy comes when a believer in religion starts to believe that he is against the coalition, for example, he is doing spiritual work and get the creator. It is difficult to control this kind of person because even his movements broke his life, or threatened to die, he believes that he will be paid by his creator. Basically the violence that happened in Zanzibar have been contributed by our politicians who significantly have been talking about what is known as "fear of the founders of the union when the coalition is being ignored in their hands." Instead of dealing with the problems of the union and get solutions to permanent solutions, our leaders have been focusing more on trying to tell us that they are dealing with it because they have refused to know about it. We have had a Commission of coalition nuisances for the years to go back but its effectiveness has become more provocative than the reality. Let's stop the hypocrisy, "noise" for demanding the change of the coalition structure (and even those to be released) cannot be.... to ignore or have a "eternal commission" to address those problems without solutions. But another is to suck on the Zionists, hatred against their colleagues on the excuse of the problems of the union. In Zanzibar, a number of politicians have dared to claim that they are going for the people of Zanzibar to miss employment. But that is just a sequence of accusations of that kind, because in the past they have been accused of being the ones that led to AIDS in the island. Because until this time I am preparing this article, the situation in the island has not changed, I request I conclude by giving a proposal on the importance of having a referendum that will compensate the offense that was done in the past to look for the consent of the citizens about the union. If the referendum will decide to have three governments, then that should be. If it is decided that the coalition should be done, then it should be that (by the way, the breath of the coalition does not mean to die in Tanzania Mainland or Zanzibar, as the breath of marriage doesn't mean the death of the husband or wife who was divorced with his colleague). Finally, when I urge our leaders to speed up the referendum I believe it will help to bring a lasting solution to the problems of our union, it is very important for both the two governments (the union and of Zanzibar) to take a stern action against the terrorists who sell "legitimate claims about the union" that the reason for attacking them and burning churches and its properties. They do not make these criminals not to look for a drawn coalition but like the seeds of religious tensions between Christians and Muslims. God bless Tanzania "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_78247920 19 December 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TMA launches new ways of giving information "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Jane Hamalosi and Neema kalalie "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Tanzania Meteorological Authority (TMA) has launched a new way of providing its information on the weather and the situation to the citizens through the Vodacom network. The managing director of TMA, Doctor. Agnes Kijazi, said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was speaking to journalists. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Tanzania is big and the weather in many areas are different, sometimes the ways that are used to provide information did not stop all the people at the time, mobile phones are better, a big percentage of the Tanzanian customers are owning a phone," said Doctor. Kijazi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He added that those reports will be available in Swahili and English showing the weather of palaces, wind, moisture and sea conditions in all provinces in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said the authority is aiming to use the opportunities of the technology that are available so as to ensure that Tanzanians are given information on the weather every time when they need it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On his side, the head of communications and marketing of Vodacom, Mister. Kelvin Twissa, said that service will involve Vodacom customers of Vodacom. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "The customer of Vodacom will be required to send a short message of words in the number 15588 and will cost shillings. 100 for every report, "said Mister. Twissa. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He urged the citizens to use that opportunity to get information on climate, building a culture of finding and getting those reports. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query984 sugar sweetener
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_85209154 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The translations of a translation is an act of making certain information from the original language written to the language. The translation is usually with the aim of trying to transfer the message, meaning and all the communication of communication and communication from different languages. This is not easy even though, and the proof is reditation that a few translations available today in the world, especially mid-mid-fielder, are unprecedented. So, it seems that in order for a translation to be done in its authenticity, several things must be noted: First, a secret must be made for both the languages, meaning the language and the language is targeted; not in the ability to make a character and pair of communication, but also the ability of emotional and cultural ability. The ability to make a character is to make a sentence that is correct and it is acceptable in the use of the language itself. And the communication capacity is for someone to present his idea and understood. However, sometimes a person can be known in communication although his statement is not correct to a character, the application and culture. The application's ability is to ensure the use of the language that he uses certain language structure in accordance with the taboo and traditions that are acceptable in certain languages. Second, if possible, the best to be given to this skills of translations on the basis of interpretations and especially theories. In addition, the secret should have been going through and heard in different theories and knowing what methods; in which way and what translations is to meet certain translations. Third, the secret is supposed to understand especially the aim of translating some work so that he can choose the type of translation needed in the implementation of his work. Four, the secrets will also be able to test the cultural and social space that is among the two languages that they have used. This is important because there is a great opportunity between the two cultures of those languages, that's when it becomes difficult to get good and real translation as required. But as a communication tool stems from a source of certain culture and that's also an illustration of the Community. Because different communities are different from the culture and therefore, it must be the difficulty of translating one report to the other. Watch for example how it would be difficult to transmit these statements from Swahili to English: "Lila and fila will not be peaceful," "Mgalla muue and his right to pe," "the grandmother of a lot of salt" and "broken me." In this situation, an article or literary report becomes more difficult to translate, in terms of literature very closely with the culture of people and so they ask a lot of statements that explain the shape of the culture. Isitosit, literature as any art, has a creative direction and emphasis on rappers. It does not say it does not say it does not say, therefore it's the dark. First, the secrets are forced to detonate a trap of mystery and the puzzles that is set by the author of the literary work; and then he will get a word or the right phrase and the right thing is close to the puzzles of language. That is why we add a good translation of Fortunatus Kawegere of Animal Farm, Wanyama and the translations of Julius Nyerere of Julius Cumer - Julius Kaisari and Merchants of Venice-Mabepari of Venus. Art is clear that the translation of the work of artwork needs a secret to a certain extent, to be keen or collaborating closely as the artist was writing. But maybe the question would be asked: Is the translations? Why should the people be able to find a word or a statement from one language until without doubt the importance of a translation that was discovered in the past. Think about the issue of spreading and spreading information in the world of today that has been like a village because of globalization. They are also changing ideas, culture, science, technology and different solution that require translation. But perhaps the most important thing here is a translation in education. Swahili language will be the language of education in our education system one day. Then we will take a secret of education books from different languages that park knowledge and different professions of education. Undoubtedly you will receive the need to be the champions of translation well for the purpose of developing Swahili language as well as a common language of Kiswahili. alex.ngure @ ioo.com "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25112647 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A new company to prepare Ngorongoro Marathon "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 21 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Ngorongoro Run will take place in the year April 22nd under the new organizer, Meta Sports Promotions Company, it has been explained. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking on a phone from Karatu in Arusha province, the director of that company Meta Petro said that starting next year, those phones are under the sports company. Meta who is the former international scientist of Tanzania said that those races are now under the athletics people, thus it will have great changes. He said that for now, they have started communicating with various companies in order to ensure that those races are made by enough sponsors and the winners get a huge prize. Petro said that the people that played that game knows his pain, therefore, they are not ready to see the game that is collapsed or the participants being stolen. He urged different stakeholders of the athletics game together with the companies to come out in large numbers to have been insufficient to sponsor those races, which are expected to have the excitement of its kind. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17900152 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We end the year for hatred and disputes Jun 01, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. One of the things that we need to think about when we are heading to the year 2008, it is a step that we did as people and as a country. Let alone expansion of discussion about good governance (good leadership?) which is good and important, there are things that we have to deal with them as well as Tanzania. We have discussed the issue of corruption and it has come to it clear that the expectations of citizens cannot be achieved in the environment and the style of dealing with the concerned problems that has been in use. In the 1980s, the former Prime Minister Edward Sokoine appeared to be successful in attending "middlemen" and "economic sabotage." But the system used to address the problem was a basic shortage that led to even some of the "economic crimes" to be proven to have been treated. And there was also a problem of creating certain permanent views in the relevant circumstances. Suddenly it was seen and even started making the concept that those involved in entrepreneurship were not far from economic crimes. They were made in different socks and put up people according to their public reflection as it has been built. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is also clear that since the early 1990s when it was passed, the Zanzibar Declaration was made a national request on what we were being supervised as a Tanzanian. Instead of loving the country first than other things we started to like more parties; we started to love more money; we started to love our tribes; we will begin to love our more, n.k. As a result, some of us are not sure how many of us - let alone the soldiers who are in that job - we will be ready to go back to the front line if a day we are called to go to war. I'm convinced to believe that day they will receive Yuda who will say they are not Tanzania. They say the war does not concern them. They will give up their lives and their families and leaving their poor relatives fighting against the results of the war. I remember the day the terrorists stormed two hotels in India the way the head of the anti-terrorism unit was a victim; he wore a metal cap, a tweet to prevent bullets and expression inside the hotel. She was killed in a shot. TV showed the time he had to join his young people to get into one of Taj Mahal hotel, and just after the police help to remove his dead bodies. I still remember the head of the whole American fire unit on the 11th of September as a victim of one of the victims in the ground. The head of the soccer club was found inside the building when it was collapsed. These events confirm the behavior of a citizen showing its great love for the national interests and the greatest gift than his soul. Can we still be convinced there are reasons to make sure that all Tanzanians should have love with their country at all times, in any environment, without themselves or questioning the validity of their love? Can we prove to us that those who have given bail to make great decisions on our behalf as citizens have a true love with this country to the extent of being ready to volunteer in the broader public interests? How many of those who have given bail have proved in their actions, without themselves or turning into it, that they have a patriotic patriotism and whoever in the eyes of the public? And if their actions are influence we are questioning their patriotism there are reasons that make them get stuck in the form of qualifications to represent or lead them? Is it a different form of view or look at the basis that makes us feel free? Are those who passed on the measure of patriotism is things or things (values) which give them the strength of love and appreciate their country? Will they also love and appreciate their country all the time and in any environment without themselves or turning into it? Are these different reflections among the diverse groups in our society today indicate what? What is the thing that gives the group the inspiration of them to believe they are right and we must protect us in the war that began under the hashtag? While we continue to discuss various issues that concern the nation, there is a slow fire in our society. We have not discussed this fire with the necessary weight. There are already people who have started to be remanded in the form of view. And the situation is now not very different from how it started in Rwanda when the citizens decided to be able to face the box that brought him to each other and its origin. Today, Tanzania has already been identified that they are a certain group. And almost every Tanzanian will be forced to be forced (or forced) to get into certain group depending on the position or personal interests. It is not the aim of this column to be predicted, but there are indications that currently there are groups of Tanzania, it will be addicted to the extent that it is impossible to be lack of conspiracy to begin to finalize. And when the order to finalize will reach a place to solve certain characters, this country has officially closed the page of his peace book. There are two major things to happen. The first one is that we as a nation to sit down with our differences, among the primary and those of using the stomach, we need to discuss how things that make us need to be Tanzania and why should we believe that we will be ready to fight for even remaining. In this discussion, we make sure that we promote transparency and good intentions to appreciate the first country instead of holding onto the groups and interests, it is not happening. But this debate doesn't end up in talks. To an end by creating our constitution to put it clear that no human being will be allowed to play for. This debate will ensure that we go back to our curriculum from nursery up to universities to invest in children and our youth, the national basis and dignity of humanity so that the work of corruption should not be great as it is. The second thing, which we request that it will end aside, it is that we will continue to stimulate the fire of hatred and tensions that we have decided to build among us because of our selfishness and we will go to a place we shall begin to lie. In this second issue, every group will be led by a good victory, then we will have taken this country in trouble. History will put a very humiliating memory of our contribution to define this country. To ask Theoneste Bagosora who was found guilty of organizing a mass murder in Rwanda. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88453022 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Interior Minister Nov 03, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. London, England "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. British Foreign Minister Sir Alan Duncan, has opposed the prospect of lawmakers to arrive in a special lawsuit to meet the U.S. State Westminster with their teenager, saying it was a snap decision. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The White House of Westminster is the special building where the members of the two countries in England - the parliament of Makabwela (House of Commons) and the House of Lords) meet. The area has been called the "heart of British politics" due to its popularity in the country. Speaking about the ban, Sir Alan Duncan said his dog called Noodle was saddened by the decision. As a result of that situation, that minister has said in order to show dissatisfaction with the prohibition, he will be going to his office (ministry) and his dog. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In his statement, the parliament has written a letter to the important offices of the parliament to explain about the prohibition which is alleged to prevent the pace of members of parliament to arrive there while they were stolen or stolen. It is stated that in the recent days, the number of members of parliament who come to the village with their stolen or unknown people have been increasing and they have been doing so without special permits. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Since 1991, the parliament of Makabwela in England signed a ban on a dog in the area of Westminster. The only dog that is allowed in that area is a special dog for the purpose of security. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In his document to those important offices, the National Assembly (Sergeant AT Arms) writes: "Here is a specific law, there are things to consider the issues of animals and health of members of parliament and even their safety as well. Not only members of parliament but even our staff and other visitors arriving at this area. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On the side Sir Alan who sometimes accompanied his dog in his parliamentary office told the Telegraph newspaper that... "if this is this, then, Nodd (dog) will rise up the charts now, from the point of reaching Westminster to (top branches) at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Last month the minister of people's camp, labor and health, Penny Mordaunt, once went to Westminster with his CAT and defend himself that his goal was to deal with a chronic mouse that was affecting the members of parliament and other executives in that area. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. And Melanie Onn, a member of the Labour Party in Grimsby, told Telegraph: "Many areas of work have been benefiting from these small animals when they are allowed. The issue of considering is that these animals, especially the dog that should not run for a long time. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_24875474 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Thursday, November 22, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Holland and bicycle culture, we welcome to private cars when we are competing to work with bad prices, our colleagues are coming to work and bicycle. Here is Eddie, Holland. Bicycles are the famous transport. This is not normal. Think about it, the first year student of the university, let alone a bicycle to go to college. It is certain that you can be given to Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In this environment where everyone is translating development by checking things, and in an environment that everyone is ready to be seen and he is even remaining on a loan, aladi should show the car, it is difficult to get a solution to 'the nuisance' of the queues in Dar es Salaam. Everyone thinks to solve this problem by increasing the road. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Just think if people would decide to use public transport, this is, how many cars would leave the road? Another time, it is funny. 40 vehicles that are struggling to make it in Ubungo region can be carrying passengers between 40-42! Every vehicle, one man! Do all of them decide to climb a bicycle or use public transport, the queues will continue to be this? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Other problems are just a perspective. Development is more than owning a car. I have learned. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is written and "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Christian Bwawani "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_96468900 The shortage of experts should rule the general meeting in Kenya. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. June 11, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A three-day meeting that includes experts from universities in East Africa and senior executives of the private sector, is expected to focus more about the shortage of experts and the needs of the employment market. The meeting of the forum for scholars and private sectors and the 2013 exhibition that will be held at Jomo Kenyatta International Conference Center, will involve stakeholders from five countries members of the East African Community (EAC). Those countries include Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi. The meeting that was under the slogan, "connecting the scholars and the private sector through the public sector," it brings together the educated professionals in different sectors and senior businessmen, they will discuss issues that involve all sides of the participants of that meeting. The Executive Director of the East African Business Council (EABC), Andrew Luzze told the Independent News Agency of East Africa (Evidence) that the private sector will discuss together a strategy to address the issue of unemployment and lack of skills required to graduates of universities in that region of East Africa. "The students say no. Speaking to the journalist, the executive secretary of the Council of Universities for East Africa, Professor Mayunga Mkunya, agreed with the comments. The problem said, it is in all five countries members of EAC, "we want to discuss how to make corrections on the curriculum of teaching which will enable to produce graduates with skills and direction." Luzze said 250 participants have confirmed to attend. There will be 77 exhibitions from universities and private sectors. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_38341604 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Giggs is separated by his wife Stacey Manchester, England. The assistant coach of Manchester United, Ryan Giggs the day before yesterday attended the event of the best player of that club while he was alone after separation with his wife, Stacey. News of the breath of Giggs' wedding took place on Sunday after being alleged that the former star of that club has had a relationship with Kate Greville (32). A group photo of Giggs giving flowers, cards and bag. Giggs (42) was among the visitors who attended the ceremony which goalkeeper David De Gea was announced for the second year to be the best player of that club. Greville is said to have had a friendship with Giggs after last year to participate in advertising the luxurious hotel of the former player where he also had friendship with Stacey, reported the Sun. The Giants' Hotel is worth 24 million pounds. However, Stacey was patience after her husband had a romantic relationship with his in-law, Natasha Giggs a few years ago by actress, Imogen Thomas. In that occasion, Giggs seemed to Smile despite walking alone, with the club's star together with other visitors with his female friends. Wayne Rooney led the protest with his wife, Co. followed by defender Marcos Rojo and his wife, Eugenia Lusardo and then Chris Smalling with his wife, Sam Cooke. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_67878393 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Shame! Students should GESTI preparing to eat UDA "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Two students, aged 14 (class seven), 15 years (form one) in Morogoro are alleged to have been found in a one-est goal and said they had an aim of taking them away from the sixth commandment of God. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The incident, an incident that happened recently in the list which is alleged to have no legal registration in the neighborhood and the market. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Reports indicate that the day the girl was sent in the market and his mother bought different food needs but he was understood to return. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When he continued to be alleged that his mother followed him while asking the people, that is when Mbeya asked him that he saw her daughter getting into the position with a sweater! The mother of the people, with surprise, was inside and found the room number 5. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The writer managed to get to the area of the scene during the secretariat and spoke to two witnesses, Asha Chande and Tausi Omary. When he interviewed they said they saw the two they went or inside the club and they wondered why they were accepted because they are children. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "After a young man arrived here with anger, he claimed his daughter who sent him to the market walked into the market, once and he went inside, he found himself with a boy while the fund was sent to them in the market. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "He pulled off, a sweater has fled, and this daughter is like this. The worst thing here is in the market, people have left business and filled, "said Tausi Kida. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When the scandal was taking place, some people wanted to break the girl's body for his action to stop what he was sent and stormed in love while still a student. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Later, the motorcycle police arrived and took the agent with the aim of saving and going to him at Morogoro Police Station where it was claimed that the police advised the parents of those children to finish home. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The efforts of our journalist wanting to speak to the guard of that goal went down after a lot of time scoring a big goal. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_26782287 Finally, taking the form TOC today "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Basil "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 15 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Today is the end of taking and returning forms to those who want to vie for various positions of leadership in the general elections of the Olympic Committee (TOC) that will be held on December 10, Dodoma. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to a press release yesterday by TOC general secretary, Filbert Bayi who is attending the general meeting of the Olympic Committee (Anoca), today at 4: 00 pm on the end of returning forms. Bayi said that the form taking form is not satisfactory, where he urged stakeholders with qualifications to come out in large numbers today to take and restore those forms to vie for the leadership of TOC. He said that Tanzania has been very good speakers when they are outside the leadership but the time of elections we reached, they have been getting into the power to vie for the leadership. Bayan already took to restore the form to defend his position. The positions that are being vied for is together with the president, the Vice President, assistant secretary, treasurer, assistant treasurer, 10 members, five from Zanzibar and others from the mainland. Others are three positions through those who have one position of players. Apart from Bayi and the President of TOC, Gulam Rashid, taking the other forms that they won include Muharami, Irine Mwasanga, Noorer Sharif, Juliana Yassoda, Noel Kihunsi, Donath Massawe and Amina Ahmed. Zakia Mrisho and Fabian Joseph took the form to vie for the citizens' message. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_40168300 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Minister Nape blessing the festival Karatu. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It has been written by Cosmas Leaf, Dodoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 12 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye will be the guest of honor at the peak of Karatu sports festival which will be held on Saturday, December 17, it has been explained. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Coordinator of the festival, who is the former scientist and member of the Tanzania Athletics Committee (RT), Meta Petro said in this town that Minister Nape is the guest of honor at the conclusion of that festival, which takes place every year. Apart from the 10-kilometer race for women and men, the festival has also been involved in the games of 60 kilometers race, the race of 2.5 kilometers race and football games, culture, games and choir. According to Petro, the football and soccer game, its finals will take place on December 16, but the winners will be handed their gifts together with their athletics counterparts and bicycles on Saturday, December 17th on the peak of the festival, which is sponsored by Olympic Solidarity. The excitement is expected to emerge in the 10 kilometers race for women and men together with the ones of bicycle, which many of its participants came from Arusha and other areas of Karatu, mosquitoes of mosquitoes, Manyara and elsewhere. Soccer matches and football matches that starts at the lower level and involving many teams, before playing the finals and to get the winners of the games, who don't meet a huge prize from the organizers. Some of the gifts provided by Filbert Bayi Foundation (FBF), who are the organizers include cash, balls, balls of soccer, jersey, gloves and other equipment. Also on the side of the football game, the equipment that are given to various winners and cash money is together with balls, the strength of playing with other equipment for that game, which in Karatu town is played better by religious denominations. Petro wanted the athletes that will participate in those races to register early so as to know the full number of participants who will participate instead of waiting for the last day is to come out, because it gives them a difficult time organizers to plan for various procedures. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98314513 The father of a young man responds to a child 3 years in prison. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Fadhili Abdallah, Kigoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 22 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A three-year-old child, a resident of Buhigwe village, Buhigwe District, Kigoma province has died after being filed by his father of the ambo. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kigoma Regional Police Commander, Ferdinand Mtui, said yesterday that they have arrested the accused Hamimu Saidi (27) a resident of Nyamian village. While giving instructions about the tragedy, Commander Mtui said the suspect was implementing his intention when the mother of that child who was the wife of the suspect when he went into faith in drawing water. He said that after the woman returned home from his faith he saw her child complaining so much when he wanted to make a small cream and then when he discovered that the child had been blocked and injured in his secret places. Commander Mtui said that after discovering that, the mother of the child took that child and took him to Maweni Provincial Hospital for treatment, where it was discovered that the child had been filed and he had been charged and he was being interviewed when he was being interviewed when he was being charged. The commander said that however, that child died in Maweni Provincial Hospital when he was being treated and that after the investigation of the Ph.D. and the police investigation, the body of that child was handed over to relatives for the burial. "For now the suspect Hamimu Saidi was being held at the police station in Kigoma town when the investigation continues so that the procedures of getting him to court will be held and that he is expected to be taken to court anytime the investigation will be completed," explained Commander Mtui. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98791737 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mtunis' Sisi of Dar we are not afraid of mouse Road, we run away, we should not be cursed by the people of People Bar' "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Jokingly: I don't remember Mwita Chacha on the men of Dar es Salaam, they don't have anything they are going to Gym in order to arrest the beauties, because they have been unable to control the Road and run on the road while others have put them on the top of the bar. Now Mtunisy is one of the youths who won the Gym has emerged with this letter. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "This letter goes to you, Mister Mwita Chacha, I don't know from Tarime that brought the record and tell us the men of Dar es Salaam to be a lot of cowards and we are afraid to even use it. In your information, we the men of Dar are not cowards like you have called us and we are the same day not like we were running the road but we were running for fear for a lot of people who were in the bar because in the violence, if any one may have happened so much even if we have a lot of weapons that you get in the bar as if you are looking at the road and machetes you think that you are in the road and end up with your wife in Dar in just three months if you look like we are looking for us when we have a lot of weapons in which if you don't know if we are in the road and I don't know if we are a lot of weapons when you look at you even if you don't know if we are in the road and I don't know if we are a lot of weapons when you look at you even if you don't know if we are in the road and I don't know if we are a lot of weapons when you look at you even if you are just like that, I request you to send this message to the guys. " Mtunisy "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I think the message has come!!!! "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3758 flood inundation assistance
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_50940252 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Citizens rights are important, they deserve to live and are predicted to be involved in poaching of elephants in order to get them to the law. That operation was done by several M-four officers in the past four years, the government started operation to fight against the presence of national parks and national parks, the citizens force and special wildlife force that were given instructions of that work. Unfortunately, the training and instructions didn't help them; the police failed to make good citizens and criminals - all of them were placed in a single source of poachers. As a result of some of the officers not from the criminals and those who are not criminals, not following justice or using the law during the operation, people found in possession of livestock and who were running agricultural activities in the park were arrested; they were harassed and some were killed. Not only that, the livestock that was arrested was banned for several days without being given leaves or water. It is sad to see that despite the incident that was attacked and caused four senior ministers to resign, other soldiers, this time of Suma JKT have killed four people and injured five others. The police who had been in the forest of Meru district in Arumeru District, Arusha Province have led to the deaths of those people after beating the fire bullets in an event to arrest their livestock and take it to the government's government. Apart from the four breeders being killed, five colleagues including a 13-year-old child who is in class three at the Oldonyosexual Primary School were injured by fire bullets. The child Isaiah Thomas (13) who was supposed to be in the classroom continuing with his studies and his colleagues are now fighting for his life in the hospital after being shot in the back of what is claimed is violence between breeders and Suma JKT who had been in the forest of Meru. Thomasa who was admitted at the Mount Meru Hospital has been transferred to KCMC Referral Hospital after his condition worsened. The doctor who was listening to says that the child started showing signs of producing, starting from the legs to the legs due to the bullet that was shot seen to be deadly, thus requiring more treatment. The situation now causes the future of the life of that child to be volatile. Likewise, that situation causes the government to cater for the treatment of that child. We advise that soldiers are being sent to arrest the livestock or people on claims of getting into areas that are not allowed to comply with the law, caring for justice and protecting the life so that the suspects should be released by the law. The police should follow the law and arrest criminals by taking them to court instead of taking them to the law and caused the deaths of civilians. We know that the work has its own challenges; some criminals have made good citizens or others pretending that they want to help the police but they have turned out and cause their effects. If that is known then the police must increase professionalism to deal with all kinds of criminals so that they are forced to use a bullet to have the legitimacy of doing so. We advise fire bullets to be used only after first using rubber bullets, shooting in the air and firing tear gas. However, we advise the citizens to stop taking care of the law in order to deal with the soldiers because by doing so they can be able to bring the effects including death. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_30047736 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Cord will continue to protest with Mike Kalama, Cord has threatened to organize peaceful demonstrations across the country to protest against the government's step of paying debts that are associated with the scandal of Anglo Leasing, while President Uhuru Kenyatta insisted that Kenya was not an option but to pay that amount of 1.4 billion shillings. A day after President Kenyatta ordered the Ministry of Finance to request that debt, the leaders of that opposition coalition came out to denounce the move as they called "taking all measures that they will defend the constitution and the public interests." The acting leader of that union, Professor Anyang "Nyong'o together with the deputy leader, Mister KalApostle Musyoka said that Cord will not hesitate to go to court or hold demonstrations across the country to oppose those payments which mentioned the constitution. "Anglo Leasing was illegal and never been fulfilled. The international community insisted on accountability and never to force Kenya to accumulate contracts that are caused by fraud, "said Professor Nyong'o. "Peaceful protest is the right of every Kenyan, that is one step that we can take. We will do it again if the government has refused to listen to his people, "added Mister Musyoka. The two others who were protesting by other leaders of the coalition, said that the move is a great blow in the efforts to fight corruption in the country. Professor Nyong'o said that President Kenyatta in 2006 suggested that the debts of Anglo Leasing was given when he was the chairman of the committee for inspecting government accounts. But President Kenyatta at the State House in Nairobi said that although his stand has not changed from the previous one, he has been forced to hoped the money was given because Kenya will not apply for funds to fund the projects. "I would not stand up with my initial statement but now if the country's leader has been forced to pay these debts after Kenya lost cases in foreign countries. I urge the Justice department to ensure that he will not be treated again in such cases where evidence is much, "said President Kenyatta. Transparency International has also blasphemy the payments which he mentioned as "to compensate the corrupt and robbed Kenyans." The executive director of that organization, Mister Samuel Kimei, urged President Kenyatta to stop the perpetrators of that scandal before the payments happened. Regarding the step of President Kenyatta to give more strength to the commissioners from the county, the union of Cord mentioned as opposed to the constitution while Mister KalApostle said that the president should not make sure you know alone but the parliament is the authority to pass the laws of selling the regime that was removed by the new constitution. "The return of the administration of the province through the past door violates the constitution and we will use all legal methods that will take place," said Mister Nyong'o. While taking responsibility, President Kenyatta said that he followed the constitution fully in the reforms. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_96333616 Okay In the entertainment of the new generation, wife is expected to perform in the bonanza to collect funds for the affected people of drugs. The secretary of that bonanza is an average to defend himself by the coach of the internet lorry and the glory of deki has said the preparations for the bonanza is complete. Now that drug abuse and In the community and not the end of the kids. Something and mother Ndalichako well and a good history of doing well discipline have enough talents so he has prepared himself well in real taxes to compete with their colleagues but in the only way is to look for talents and beating them. A total of ten soccer teams will participate in that bonanza
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41671113 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The work for the elders of Mbumba Simone, big business people and those of the middle were being called and forced to take money. Otherwise those criminals decided to follow up in the homes of the rich after warned not to report the police. In one case I had heard, a businessman went to the police after being given a report of the visitors of that kind. Police put a trap and a few minutes before the hour of the incident, police officers arrived to work in every corner of the house. They saw it safe and they left. After the officers went to their room, the guards discovered that rich was killed in his room. They asked him to knock the door without success even when they decided to break it. They grew up with hands, legs, eyes and mouth. They concluded that all the money has been taken. They were not officers, but criminals in the faces of officers. A leopard on the skin of the sheep! Many of the robbers who went to the 80s had emerged as a robbery of kind. He is in popular spots in the city. At the time you gave you a few days after your beer, he just entered a short person and called a drinks attendant. But before he was not asking for the cooperation of the culprits in the country. They are saying that the culprits were thought to be the one "andunis" had a special job for them. On his opposite, she tells the attendant's boxes for the height of those people. A attendant in surprise, andunis made a bag full of notes and demanded an attendant to attend the payment. The day people would be drinking free until the next morning. At some point of problems, people are comforted by the women. They were crying. They also brings a new twist of "pedejee" who is inevitable, who is inevitable, who is protected by the youngster, and he will give money to the street on how he felt. There is no one to ask them what he did. Now because there are many people that don't like to work but with luxury life in the umbrella of pedejee, they saw the situation even if the pedejee is in their property (public domain). When it comes when you control this one, then you will be confusing many. It is an example of the big food that had a lot of food to the table to play for them. Their aides decided to Put on the legs in the legs than looking for a seat. Later, the song comes down; many were struggling to get a chance. Christians have the same as older. What should we expect to expect? In the past, when Israel led from the Egyptians said "It's better to let you leave you; we eat and eat" without thinking that they were deported to the table to eat their food. In this, it is not a must that we get into the ankles. It is open and everyone knows we wanted the country of what kind since we got independence. The condition of being hurt in her sweat in a sheltered place. It is not Tanzania to be forced by the agent to buy your sweat in the price he wants then to sell the market at the price he wants. If he wants that is not his own ime? Work for you "voters." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_64391785 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Magufuli reveals secret to throw the board TRA "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by John Gagrisk, Kibaha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 25 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. President John Magufuli has disclosed the secret of his step of disappointing the board of directors of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He has said that he was forced to take that step after the board approve 26 billion shillings to be taken to a special account in several business banks. That board gave permission to be taken to those funds in those banks while there is a directive by the president of banning public institutions, public organizations, government departments, agents and ministries to put their money to commercial banks. Those funds are supposed to be opened in the Tanzania Central Bank (BoT). Last Sunday in the morning, the State House announced that Doctor Magufuli broke the board of directors of TRA, and a few hours he appointed the deputy commissioner general. The State House without explaining the reason, it said that President Magufuli has dismissed the appointment of the chairman of the board of directors of TRA, Bernard Mchomvu, and taking it to the whole board. Moreover, in addition to taking that board, he appointed Charles Lugere to be the deputy commissioner general of TRA, to fill the position that was open for one year after Doctor Magufuli to revoke the appointment of the former president of that position, Lusekelo Mwaseba. "The appointment of another chairman of the board of directors of TRA and the board of that authority will be announced later," explained the State House statement released on Sunday morning. According to the report of this year of TRA, members of the board that were appointed in the year 2014 and were asked to serve until the year 2017 and the areas that were working when they were appointed in brackets is Shogholo Msangi (assistant commissioner of policy, Ministry of Finance), Khamis Omari (secretary general, Ministry of Finance, Zanzibar) and Doctor Philip Mpango (as the secretary general of the commission of planning). For now, Doctor Mpango is the Minister of Finance and Planning. Others are Professor Beno Ndullu (the Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Assaa Ahmad Rashid (secretary of the Ministry of Constitution and Law Zanzibar), Josephat Kege (member of parliament Kalambo - Rukwa), Doctor John Mduma (senior lecturer, department of economic research and policy at the University of Dar es Salaam - UDA), Doctor Nsubso Isaga, (lecturer of Mzumbe University), and Rished Bade (with the Commissioner General TRA). The secretary of that board was Juma Bannon (TRA). Bade suffered from that position. While addressing yesterday at the 31 graduation of the University of Huria Tanzania (OUT) at the headquarters of the university, Bungo, Kibaha district in the Coastal Province, Doctor Magufuli said that he had traits the board as a result of violating the procedures. He explained that their action to approve those funds to be put in different banks, is different from the instructions since that was the game done by institutions and organizations. "Now I don't know if the University of Huria and you have been putting the progress of development in Fixed Deposit Account, (a special account) but that's been the game, the day before yesterday we have found funds a total of 26 billion shillings that were given by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) for the use of TRA, were taken to three banks like Fixed Deposit Account and the TRA Board has passed, that is why I received the information, money I took by the board by happy. "Even at the moment the minister (education, Professor Joyce Ndalichako) is here, the Tanzania Education Authority (TEA), which was established for special reasons, is allocated money when there are their money they have imported the Fixed Deposit Account, that minister is a message sent and Delivered," insisted President Magufuli. He said that there has been a game of heads of different institutions to take money and put them on a special account where the government goes to borrow at a high cost. "For now, this is the game that is played and causing the government to lack money, an issue that the government is not ready to see the misuse of its funds," explained Doctor Magufuli who is known for insisting to restrict government expenditure and are disgusted with the violation of government operations. He said this game has been giving the government a high cost because of borrowing money in the bank at a high cost and misleading the availability of revenue. "I request that you will continue removing them because the country reaches a place in trouble where they can hold sessions even in Europe and due to this trauma, it has increased from 1.2 trillion and to 1.8 trillion where the economy has improved," explained Doctor Magufuli. He said the economy has improved and you are supposed to take by 7.2 percent, but until the quarter of this year has grown by 7.9 percent and that one of the countries whose economy is growing rapidly, which among five countries has been the second after Ivory Coast. In addition, he said that the value of money has risen and that the ones that are talking about money is those who are sharing a deal that for now they don't have a chance. A total of 4,027 graduates graduated and awarded various degree and the head of Huria University of Tanzania, retired prime minister Mizengo Pinda. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_70770379 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Workers denied breast cancer "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 24 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Employees of TBL beer company and their families in all its industries in the country, at the end of the week they commemorated for breast cancer. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They were denied breast cancer and given higher education for this disease which has been increasing at a fast rate in the country. The project manager of the company, Jonathan Kvitova said the commemorations have taken place so as to implement the plan of the company to strengthen the health of employees and their families known as Health First. "The response of all our employees to participate in this program is good as many have come out to be tested and be given advice on how to avoid breast cancer and to know the symptoms of this disease early as soon as it comes, so that they have ever been tested and getting treatment," he said. The Coordinator of the First Health Program of TBL Group, Julieth Mgani said apart from the workers being given education and advice on various diseases, they also get an opportunity to participate in a joint exercise involving their families and they have been getting educated on the importance of good nutrition. One of the doctors that runs cancer testing to those workers in Dar es Salaam city, Doctor Walter Kweka, said Tanzania is one of the countries with a huge increase in cancer patients especially in recent years, especially breast cancer that affects many women. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_91278290 Ehr If the pair now doesn't know your story, you know you are talking to who know what you know, but he doesn't act or it's just a job. Halo the very good thing maybe you are today and I know that we should have won well maybe. Please do Gohh... also mi I have won a good mm ehr you are safe and lt; hes Twitter gt; they don't have a word please do it too. Mym news of the rest of the mother is safe and my mother is safe too, I was looking at the report seen as sheeph Elizabeth's request It's easy for mym ehhe and the hashtags was a school since how many hours It was a surprises. When Regina was safe but at this time, he was in school to be very much, from ten o'clock and a half and well, we don't have been given it, let us wait, there are things they want to put there for the hero's plan to why you are eka today. Ohh made calls from the office or not. Why did they tell you there is a problem? Ohh, that's a reverse. Ohh doesn't let us left the reverse because I had another girl and told me that they were so much, it's not what the problem is where they were given So that is why he is unable to why why are you were told to go to go and go to tomorrow the news must be. They called me when they were told. Bohh let me wait to write about where they will be close to the rest of the city tomorrow okay, the same reason I will go to the city in the morning it was a gold color and it is also a bit of beauty and it's too beautiful, I hope that we can do it. Also, I hope they will make sure that the day of my mother said I will take a day Tomorrow I am not sure maybe I should look at what I look at hours of good and then tell me the hour I will come. When the fare said that leso was the colors of Margaret ehhe ohh is beautiful. I hope it will be proud of the mother and now you know he is selling television or what you are doing on television or what are you doing this time. Twitter lt; hes tgt; no, I am so long as my snow likes the snow if he likes the snow if you want to know you like snow. I want to love you. One of the waves or another Bohh mi sipendi u _ g, but you can't take a car to go home but there is still no car. Ehr Ohh Uki starting to travel well today ohh while Mgani When I see me but I see if I will go through to you today, you will look like I will get my MUM it is to ask you even if I would like to know if I would have bought it. Ohh is very welcome. It's the same you will only find ten walls that I don't even get angry I am just happy and happy about me when I am yet to end it. Ehhe and why are you talking with a lot of fun. And those movie saw it as if you will give you a moment when I take a long time when I want to see. This is for violations if I will get it down the same minute and let me end a mym ehhe no. Mym I can get very much please if you finished Too. Then there are others that I can ask for others that can help them Let's look at I am sure you are with them The same way I will look for the ehorg later for five minutes and let me start looking for it. How many hours above, I want to know this time when it took that I know if I come to take it. The same as the same way, then I was able to ask you So I had to know what I was and what I wanted to know where I had the keys of what the keys are so that we have been given here to the technician, there are those keys to the house, we had already paid the money to a technician, we are still going on. Ati What would you like to be given the keys to the victim's keys are not enough for the other, it was just enough that I would not remember that it was the right to let him take him then we will be looking for then. Dozens of them. The date and no one carries one when I stopped two hours tomorrow, we should be looking for because my reasons are not my one. Bohh then and what other than the punderns are too high. Ohh, hold on opening, I think I am with a mym as we will look for the words: We will look for me to tell me to tell me that I have always been asked about the questions here even though it's not about it. AHH isn't for me to call it. Ehn even if you don't even know the words Even the questions I have asked a lot is a month of questions even though I have finished the same questions what you made it does not listen to what the market talks and who is there, there is a person AKO and abusive now that we have a vision of your views so that all the words of So there are fees mym mym mym. This then give it a story. Ehhe has heard a lot of insults and a lot of abusive words in my words. Ehhe is not the one saying that he is happy with him, htt; hes tgt; and also know that PESPickup are children who listen to such things mym no to fees to be understood and she is asking just the usual questions. It was not so bad but when you sit down, you sit down with the wrong men of the men so much, now mm ehhe above, like the fees today boycotted by the songo is the ability to ask by Feb a bishop. Mym mym
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_26465444 We are back to hope that we are listening, but I have gone on with the topic He changed Small and Botswana is tired but that is not the ethics of a service he has lived with completely because of their constitution, therefore, you can see us be here but therefore in those regions it is someone who is without getting his beer to love for more than what the call Mwita loves money. That's where I have done. But it seems to be a good topic for now and its effects are the same topic. It depends on someone and Someone Another because of lack of money Me personally, I see that it is devastating the answers given by the patient's match, sometimes a lover can work in the morning is to tell me why it is forced to explain it but the primary thing or they were looking for it, who is life blood to boycott children, we see that what should happen so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what is happening to be done so that you should stay between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be between the doctor and the patient what should happen to be done so that the comfort should be The lobster is because the law is not legal but usually do it wrong. The result? His worship Without one As it is part of our special coverage Nigeria Elections 2011. I see that property What is the view of what should be done for the time between the dhists And diseases providing secret What should happen to be a broad guarantee that is against Ebola dismiss it because if you know the secret of the patient will be treated and eight now When you don't expect a guarantee doctor in my opinion, I see that we should forget about a guarantee that they have been so much even if the law is being done, but why are they saying that when you go back there, you are saying that we don't expect to say that when you are saying that we don't know when you know where you don't want to say when you are saying that you were not going to say when you know it was you and I don't know if you were not going to say when you know it was you and I don't know if you were not going to say when you know it was you and I don't know if you were not going to say when you know it was you and take care of them. Okay then if that is the same way, we are going to start with the second body to come out and we will go back to those who Mosha, the topic was very good and it was about you in the topic of a religious budget says we can maintain ten ten houses. The towns and alcohol has not been released yet it hasn't been released yet to maintain the speed you make up something I finished is so that the bladder is still there and it's going to work. And do the tender why the ten ten houses system began to cooperate For ten houses Government when they ask To help them have been blessed very well at ten houses as we came to the same way, the leader of the ten houses are called yet to be appointed and who take up. Welcome. But They will go back Street That from here in our streets and busy and taken for the first of my brother, the presenter has released birthday with a smoke in three days From unity and mi if I haven't taken it but I have given it because they will be distributed. Introducing the ten ten houses system was removed, there will be all weaknesses If the first book in the town is a representative himself and he will be the one we will not know the people who go to the neighborhood you want to tell you, you know that all the visitors that get in the neighborhood you know that it's very difficult to know who came to me because even the areas where the house you find themselves like to come out to me a little and the umpate yesterday comes from but for us in the villages to work in the meantime, he claimed that there was no matter to know if they are.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_71692483 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Devastating: The victim was taken to court for beating his wife "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mtunisi was promoted to the Court of Genesis Manzese Sinza in Dar es Salaam city on Monday, where after a hearing about his charge of attacking the body, the suspect denied and therefore the judge postponed the case until December 15th this year when it was mentioned again. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, Mtunisi was unable to be granted bail after the judge's dissatisfaction with the health of the woman, Aziz, who asks him... in another situation, the court guards showed a huge balance to the journalists, by preventing them from entering the court room or taking photos, claiming that their laws are not allowed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They looked like they were given a special instructions, they urged them to send a letter from their work tool, because even after reminding them that the exercise was held in the past, rather than to remind them that the exercise was held in the past, rather than to get a copy of the letter written earlier, an exercise that was difficult due to time. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_52712739 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TV stations in Kenya and Uganda have a privilege to Lowassa, Khuini? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I have going through short reports of TV stations in Kenya and Uganda. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Centers like WBS, NTV, Citizen TV, K24, KTN etc. It cannot pass two days in the international news report without showing Lowassa and his campaigns. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Question: "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 1. Why do the poor stop by Magufuli and his CCM? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 2. Those of the videos take to YouTube or their reporters are in the convoy of President Lowassa? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 3. What is the purpose of giving him a privilege to convince one and not all? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 4. Means Magufuli does not have international respect even here in A / east? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 5. Although my wife (son) always tells me that Kenya and Uganda will not come up to vote, they are fun. Is it the right concept? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_21155103 Ehhe is not a mym, she does not have no word I had since a bit of Research I was going on, I was going to do. Whether it's good I heard about those ma, where is the same thing mm stands up. I was going to do a campaign so that my brother stands up at home When I was so far, I have forgotten that we were going to help him do a small campaign Okay is good. And they are facing us, htt; we are following politics AHH cannot be quite a bit less mi see Why do they want money at home to do cabbage, we are looking for your bad people to go back there and let's let us do a campaign. Mym nonetheless, the campaign is not so used but of restricting politics mmm mym Ehr no, it is not used to you as if you enter your interest.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53455849 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The bank focuses on the use of ICT to increase the market Aziza Nangwa, Citizen Media capapers @ scientanchi.corez in Dar es Salaam. In implementing what appears to be a strategy to afford competition in the bank's sector in the country, Exim Tanzania has started a special campaign to its customers to use the customer service center in order to increase the effectiveness of the service. The head of the treasury unit of that bank, George Shumbusho said the day before yesterday that the way will increase the size of the market because it will expand the scope of reaching their customers more that they will get an opportunity to give feedback. In recent years, many bank institutions have been improving in the provision of services by improving the communication system especially through the information and communication technology (ICT) who has helped some to do well in the market like CRDB Bank, NMB and others. The Senior Customer Service Manager of that bank, Frank Matoro said the center will help customers to get detailed reports about various services they provide. "It is our expectations that our customers will enjoy better services from workers with criteria and enough understanding concerning banking issues every day," he said. Matoro said the station has started offering services while noting that the objectives of the campaign is to ensure its customers are aware of its existence. He said the service in that center will be given through phone conversation, social networks including Facebook, website and email. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_33923274 The holiday, the secretary general of the revolutionary party we, Abdulrahman Kinana has called on Tanzanians to continue maintaining unity and solidarity that is in the country and to avoid religious conflicts, he has given what he has eating in Mwanza province during the Iftar which was organized by the representative of the main council of us Christopher Gachuma, has no information. Some of the believers of the Islamic religion together with the winners in Mwanza Province who are in the fasting of the holy month of Ramadhan, who were brought together in the park has been organized by the representative of the main council of the revolutionary party, Christopher Mwita Gachuma, that event was being used by Gachuma together with the head of Mwanza Province, Evarist Ndikilo, to give a word, this is a good thing Adding them in trouble. Will leave them Religious discrimination and if it is God but they are putting it then I will continue with my position they will pass through a joint responsibilities and one is not an important thing Lema continue to pray for me, I had a great contribution to the water If you mean you has a person to come here to make us some of the believers of the Islamic religion and the responsibility was the secretary general of snaem Abdulalim kinana who has encouraged the importance of being maintained in peace and stability in the country. The staff of Mister happened Before the election as a good man in solidarity we live in many communities With Magwanda If it would have been. Prophet Mohammed Lema culture He touched on the tennis in Mwanza province.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_36283933 Now it is not just the worst. AHH of football I don't want the ball? The even mi Man city will go back to work to recognize who they are there now, and he is happy to ush his activities but there is no doubt that I believe we will look for this Mister Meru. Even there is no doubt that I was Kabete is not the one I was in beshte. It's not what I say will have to find an elder while Nairobi is understood And who went to flickova, the name was rape or denno AKO Denno denno AKO but nowadays the love there is no guy, I don't know how all we do in the thirties Because ohh has heard that he has been mym I hear that I was intimidated and I don't know I don't know the mym I look for us we are going on with a car It's a mi, I have been holding up but today we have said that he is gone, I started a theater, then there is no one. Why is it bad now You hear the presidents are not to remember Betty without this is serious that I do? Mym tell you about some hours it is ush and angry at the moment I will be Sam You know you know why I tell me that it wasn't in line with that man so even if you don't tell you all the suckers thurb I let me tell me even though you don't agree that you will have come to all of you. Ehr but it's cool that we don't know if you don't know that my work you can get out of TWO hours when he will go to the dagoretti then mi naenda Class, well you know he told me even the Story he does not want this time. It's yes we will win together with Holiday woah And the property will end the Class if you have got a Job that is free of free for you. Even when I am pregnant at this time I am not telling me while the movie is not just because of your eggs, it starts not tomorrow I can now know where this time you are and the evil isn't come to go and he wasn't single stones.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_75239142 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Manusura of the accident continues to be treated for two people who are continuing to receive treatment at Molo district hospital after being involved in accidents in Molo-Mau Summit. The two who are the driver of the probox and its passengers survived the death after the vehicle lost direction and speculation several times. According to the citizens who saw that accident, the box was run quickly before losing direction. John Njoroge who is one of the drivers who is serving in the road said Molo Mau summit has many holes, an issue that causes the increase of accidents. The Probox was abandoned to Molo Police Station. And a MARRIED TWO years ago. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_44414678 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A shame that hit the coffee industry, complaints from tea and tea farmers at a small level in the country following the news that they will get a small bonus from Chai Kenya Council, KTDA, it has proved clear the problems affecting the water sector in the country. KTDA bought one kilograms of tea in 14 shillings and then later on the end of the financial year to provide additional payments known as bonus. They couldn't buy tea and get the second payments depending on the amount of leaves that they took to the factory and the financial ability of the factory that lead the leaves. The payment of tea farmers around 560, 000 people across the country were blocked from between 24 and 35 shillings last year to 8.50 shillings and 16 shillings this year. A total of the funds that were set aside for those payments and KTDA also reduced to 44 percent from 35.6 billion shillings last year to 19.8 billion shillings this year. The chairman of the small-scale farmers' party, Rift Valley, Joel Chepkwony says that the minimum amount of bonus this year was caused by the highest number of directors of KTDA. Mr. Chepkwony describes the directors and "shootes" while wondering why 455 directors were paid millions of money to manage 65 industries in the country, while farmers continue to receive low payments. "Is it a must we have seven directors in every factory of Labour for KTDA? That is a big burden for farmers because every director receives a payment of approximately 1 million shillings each year. We don't need many directors, "said Mister Chepkwony. At the same time, Mister Chepkwony calls for the Minister of Agriculture Felix Kosgey to intervene and reduce the number of directors in every factory to stay at two, explaining that this will reduce the cost of running industries so that more money can be paid to farmers. KTDA runs 64 industries on behalf of 54 cold tea companies that are run directly by tea farmers who are shares. Abraham Rotich, an accountant of KTDA in the scene and destruction, denies the claims that the organization caused tea prices at an international auction in Mombasa (Mombasa Auction). Mister Rotich clarified that KTDA had equal rights and other business people who are selling and bought at the auction and therefore it did not have any authority to decide the price of tea. "The price is decided by the international direction, as well as the needs and demands of customers who want to buy tea. It can also be affected by the level of change of dollars, "he adds. The tea sector in Kenya has been faced with various problems that are seen to be caused by not strengthened the markets of foreign countries that have been executed by political conflicts or weakening the economy. Kenya is leading the world in the sale of tea in CTC (Cut, Tear and Curl) in the international market, considering that it contributes 22 percent of CTC sales in the world. The major marketing of tea in Kenya is together with Egypt, England, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Sudan, Russia, Yemen and United Arab Emirates (UAE). About the bonus, however, in the areas where tea leaves in the country, various manufacturing and tea factories have provided different levels of additional payments. In the county county, Momul County issued an extra paycheck in the south of Rift Valley, being 15.25 kilograms, with other industries like Litein, Kapkatet and Tegat paying 12 million farmers and 14 Sheps. The cold tea factory of Ogden in the Kisian county paid the lowest bonus in the country, with 8.5 kilograms of kilograms, while the Imenti, Meru led to 26 shillings. What is the solution to these problems? During his visit to the city in a few months ago, the secretary general in the Ministry of Agriculture Sicily Kariuki admitted that the tea sector in the country has faced various challenges. Miss Kariuki expressed his concern that less than five percent of the whole amount of tea being constructed in Kenya was being used by its citizens, while 95 percent were sold in foreign markets. He says that the government will continue to look for new tea markets in the world while recognizing that tea is one of the crops that pay the country's headquarters of foreign money. Last year, tea shares this country 11.5 billion shillings in foreign sales and 22 billion shillings in the country. However, the high cost of tea production in the industry has been linked to the reduction in the income of the farmers of tea leaves, and thus making different industries for making tea to look at a way to reduce the cost so that the farmers get more money. Four kilograms of tea leaves from the farm is needed to make one kilogram of tea which is sold every week at the big tea auction that is in Mombasa and which has been very recognized. Other stations in the world are in Colombo and Calcutta in Sri Lanka and India. Momul factory manager Leonard Gitobu Muriinherit says the factory is using 60 million shillings per year to pay the cost of electricity to run its work equipment, and 50m more in buying firewood. Mr Muriinherit adds that according to this controversial situation, he had several tea factories in the destruction of the destruction company to register a multiconic Power Company in order to generate electricity in those industries. "According to things that are there now, every farmer is losing almost 5 shillings that would have gone through its payment in the payment of electricity every year," he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1408 picture photograph hotel
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_75490862 You are going to eat guilty, we will go to vote for the halo not one of the mother When we ae mym halo and my unity of my unity one mym ehyou have never told me that there is one thing when I voted there, it is full again and I was in the lips early by ten o'clock that there is the lines it has been so long let me finish early? So I tell you in the burguru as you are going on the morning But it's good for you to go early to build a house if you do not get a lot inside you, they have ima halo So Mbinga Ehhe is back in my pace Ehr Halo mym ehhe halo tell me that I want to celebrate your favorite at eight o'clock and ran away. Let's talk to me to tell me that I don't tell me mym you are going on halo, I say I don't get in line with it in hand in line in line with a mom. Mym doesn't tell me that I want to look at that at eight o'clock, I went to make someone okay, he has never been able to prepare for now, e _ c _ P get somewhere in cooking. Why doesn't I ask you about it? Halo we Ehhe halo does not be surprised when he is also saying: Halo and ask me to ask you just about your mym and ask your name to ask you
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_85445540 We are tired The business Programme is known as a Big Dog that is under the private sector in the country t _ P _ s pepper tlt; unk, gt; has emerged that the business conference of the conference involves producers of research institutions and the government so as to help small entrepreneurs to produce competitive products, opening a four-day training for business stakeholders, the hardg program of tenants, said that the system has developed the entrepreneurs to produce competitive products and get a way of better methods of production of their products. And For us Experience of many years In another country And especially the developed countries Take a look at a food crisis in a business conference
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_18737868 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The University of Land to start using research at the port of Tanga University has completed the construction and placement of equipment in Tanga port as one of the research projects being done in that college for the purpose of testing the real situation of the sea. The Deputy Head of that college, Professor Idrissa Mshoro said that while reading a speech during the 10th graduation of the university that took place at the college in Dar es Salaam city. Professor Mshoro said that together with the responsibility of giving graduates in various fields for the development of the country, the university has the responsibilities of doing research and to provide professional advice thus through the Research for Climate Change Research that was sponsored by the government of Norway in collaboration with the government of Tanzania has been able to achieve that construction. "The purpose of this project is to help improve communication between the port and its users, since the accurate information that will be provided about the reality of the sea will help make the correct decisions of using that port also, those reports will be great help to other stakeholders like fishermen, tourists and various researchers," said Professor Mshoro. He has added that in giving advice and professional services, the university has implemented various government projects, public and private institutions in all the universities that are taught in that college, therefore, to help in increasing the income of the university for projects, providing motivation to employees together with providing opportunities for the profession to get experience in various professions they studied. In addition, Professor Mshoro has thanked the fifth term government for continuing to raise funds and other donations for running the college activities where for the financial year 2016 / 2017, the government has allocated a total of 5 billion shillings for the budget for the development of that university. While speaking about the graduates, Professor Mshoro has clarified that a total of 968 students will be awarded a diploma and diplomas in which 868 students will be awarded a diploma and doctorate degree to 6 students. On his part, the deputy minister of education, science and technology, Engineer Stella Manyanya has said that there is still a big challenge for girls to join science subjects since the number has shown that female graduates are 320 students, which is equivalent to 33 percent of all students, therefore he has appealed to girls to use the opportunity to study those subjects without fear. Engineer Manyanya has advised youths to focus on studies that will enable them to be self-employed more than those that need to be employed since that way will help to improve economically quickly and contribute to the development of the nation. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1406 vice president
query1404 fish animal
query1405 drugs illicit substances
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_10854299 The stakeholders will be able to support the Tanzanite and Fatuma Rashid the stakeholders of sports in the country have been urged to come out to help the national team of the women football team (the Tanzanite), so that it can get further. That team is facing a repeat match of searching for tickets to play the World Cup of youth for women, against Mozambique last weekend in a previous match that was played two weeks ago at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam won 10-0 goals. Speaking to journalists together with the players of the Tanzanite, at the time of leaving the team that left yesterday to Mozambique, the assistant director of sports development, Juliana Yasoda said the team needs additional force from various stakeholders, who will help them get further. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yasoda said the team will continue to move forward if those stakeholders will come out to give them support in various competitions. On his part, the head coach of that team, Rogasian Kaijage said that his squad is stable for the purpose of the contest and they will strive to perform well more than a match that has won. Kaijage said that Tanzania will need to look at that team in a different view, because right now he is preparing to improve the women's soccer in the country. "This is a team that needs to be watched further, because the aim is not for the current years but it is to form women's soccer that will advertise Tanzania in the World map later," he said. He said the delay of four players who will join their colleagues tomorrow just after completing grade four exams, it will not affect something because they are still waiting for the tournament and also if it will receive an emergency that will force them to delay further then there are other players who are also capable of. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_99757168 Halo halo Halo yeah If you are getting the yeah, and say I listen to don't want you to tell me what a thousand are not waiting for a question or mym You feel like he wants to talk Especially speaking to talk, you are talking to you, you are talking about girls you are feeling that you are feeling just trying to make his way back on the boat in front of what I said mm ehr And shut down nine o'clock. 7.m. about the bodies Bodies I cannot say I don't know that This about the beautiful So the beautiful mym When he went to where he went to where he was right not the guy of the beauty instead, he has decided? After All the money? The beautiful AKO, I can't have ever seen mm He was in the room now they had the eighth month of the year AHH to make a wedding will be mym He did a wedding to do it and now we want to say, but why is it? Mi still doesn't start with you a second thing of life but well we must think that it is not something we don't think about just one day MOI, you feel that you must prepare well and everything yeah. Mym ehhe ohh and now you hear that you want to imagine how many years you want to do so if how many years do you do with how many years do you have? Ehr I don't have? When you go there He shares twenty years in the mym If then I ask oil questions I told him a week Okay So in life we have to see what kind of child is. What kind of Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; the one with no one with everything I want. No, I saw it okay with a man with Stella so I want So mi to focus on the first buses, it will be taken into consideration. Aai mi I don't want to consider those things I look for now in mind six are using those things to consider. Okay notre you like a white or one who love you and it is a must for God to know this okay and you do what you think if you are again with your fiance, another religion will be easy to become a single hour or it is good to change the first before you get married. Aai squamungu mym and the truth is not, I think the truth is false. If you can't depend on with a religion, maybe maybe a Muslim is maybe a Muslim girl, but if not Christians are going to go to a different church if we don't know that it depends on if I don't like my Indians there is nothing to change or or the Story sometimes I can't think mym don't come to life. Ehr AHH And here Ohh talks here right now in the church is a Catholic priest we are the next month you get our ideology like Catholmi also, there are things you consider whether people should help it is not that before I say that we can't change if we change later, we should stay tuned or be good to change first or later the first. It depends on whether I'm ready to change life or you take one hundred of luxury to change maybe, if he can accept the cold So I can't accept to change the march. Okay So, you feel that maybe we are still in, especially when we look at the religion of a man's minerals. You know that it depends on them and for them maybe my parents did. He has said that we should change you or your children are the one that he needs to change and know your children, that you want to go the church to the church of that woman. This It's okay then it's okay then you do a difference later but mi is a good friend to go to a wedding that is the best to do so you will decide on the day before, things in my MUM I write about the wedding yeah, So I thought it's good for them to be supported and welcome to one church to a church to one church. If you have to know that it's the one who will save it will have to go to him for a year, it is ok, we will see him will have to give us to our church You can accept that a big woman doesn't sell the spectrum not to see halo okay with the fish and I realize that I was going to take it completely and he has refused to change religion I will do what he will do in the month of mmm you will tell you that you will be based on it? It's not expected So if he will accept you, you know what you will decide if I say I have been there. So, it is hard for now, then you to make us in our church is the second I know of it is fine. If you like me, we must continue to keep my religion as we go with it because if love you must agree with the teachers to agree with each other, we must come forward to us. The religious religion is coming into a habit, you can't change later but recently, it means that you can also change the habit and then the behavior of the first thing I don't want to go to the denim or if you find a lot of things and then I would like to understand that I am looking for a long time for a long time, but this tendency is also a lot of behavior that you need to go out for a short time for a long time, or it takes a long time for a long time, or how long will we look for the mother and then it takes a long time for a long time. Where will it be based on what the seven-character behavior is how you wish to be an array Ehhe mym ehhe ehhe ehr Mym and third ehr.
query2032 women's soccer
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_23740575 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Makamba visits the factory that produces energy by using waste, Tabora, the minister of state in the office of the Vice President in charge of union issues and environment. Jauary Makamba congratulated Mister. Leordard led to inventing a factory that has made alternative energy to the environment. While in Tabora Province, Minister Makamba got an opportunity to visit the factory and said that the government values the creativity and discovery especially causing them to reduce the environment. "The man that came to me and thank you so much, I saw your efforts through the television show and decided to call you and help you" insisted Minister Makamba. In appreciating the contribution of that factory, "Coming from the fall," the Office of the Vice President has helped Mister. To come out to get a Creative Commons license. Previously Mister. Leonard came from, the director of Coming up and passed by Tools ManSure Group has said that his factory has succeeded to provide employment to 13 youths and managed to invent different technology in the environment where up to now, they have succeeded to reach more than 50 youths in Tabora Municipality, Urambo, Kaliua, Mlele, Katavi and succeeded to teach the manufacturing of firewood and charcoal to 50 percent. Also, that company has succeeded to invent a machine that has a great capacity to produce 160 kilograms for hours using diesel, 5 liters and producing an average of 1000 kilograms of charcoal and also the factory has succeeded to invent a plant by drying tobacco by using the dry land or the remains of crops like nuts, maize, maize and rice bran. Mr Trump Said. To come out, he has said that "this machine has provided good results in the production of tobacco, because the average of the use of 3 kilograms has reduced one kilograms of tobacco using modern tools," Mister. That has requested the Minister to help the company to get different training on the best way to invent and develop alternative energy production especially in the countries that are doing better. "To come up with the decade" was officially launched in 2000 and received documents (TMC / CO / CBO / 48). Minister Makamba in Tabora province has also got an opportunity to visit Nzega District and Igunga District, concluding his 10 provinces tour in the country with environmental challenges. By Lulu Mussa, Tabora "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1792 ditch trench
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_37049333 While giving a report of those payments that will start to be released on June twenty and five days and continued within thirty days the head of the province of the province of Dar es Salaam, Saidi Meck Sadiki said after reviewing all the two hundred and two hundred and two hundred thousand shillings that was rumored to have another one hundred thousand shillings and eight hundred million shillings is the one who will see the one who will see his name is supposed to go with his identity. And the memories that will enable them to enable them to enable them to do their job easily. And without fraud from other people who don't deserve. They can go to their payment desks And pretending to deserve that they deserve that they should have a full identity card for a prisoner He can have his passport as it I can have a voter identification card He may have. A resident documents in the area The scientists have said the names of the pay will be written to fill the highway and to ten local offices and one that will be available for those payments and he has called on all those who will be paid to the identity cards or passport to avoid disruptions and fraud. When I reported from the house they had been donated by Fredy Mwanjala Chanel ten
query3524 black dark color hue
query1797 poverty milk
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_20775747 He says to comfort Majimaji "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Grace Mkojera "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 14 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The coach of Majimaji Kgreonga "Kally Ongala said that losing his game against Kagera Sugar at the home ground was unfortunate and that the procedures will reverse their mistakes. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In that game that was played at the Majimaji Songea stadium, the hosts celebrated 1-0 goals. Speaking to this newspaper yesterday Ongalla, said that his team ruled the ball with a big percentage in that game but unfortunately they were forgotten and scored that goal. "If you look at the whole game, we played well and said we were unable to use the chances we got in closing, our colleagues got an opportunity and bring us," he said. Ongalla said they are continuing to fix the mistakes and procedures are changing because it is needed is tolerance to the fans of that team. Majimaji this season things have been bad after losing eight games out of nine that played. Since Ongalla, joining that team lost two games and won one, while giving me the heart that things will change time is not long. He said anything is possible because there are many games in front and that they are continuing with preparations to solidify them so as to get good results. The last match is expected to play next game against Toto African that will be played at the CCM Stadium, Kirumba Mwanza, the day after tomorrow. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_76419698 World Cup scandal in Brazil Jun 21, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On June 12, this year the football competition to contest for the world cup was opened in the capital city of Brazil, Spro Paulo and is expected to continue until July 13. The whole world sucks up and discuss these matches with inspiration and absurers, with international companies doing billions of profit due to this incident. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The media has been denied to announce these matches. The most publicized story is news about Brazil's citizens who for a long time have been fighting police and soldiers who use all kinds of weapons, tear gas, bullets, marches, and so as to prevent protests associated with the World Cup. These anger started a year ago and have continued until the opening day when thousands of protesters gathered outside the stadium. While the viewers were organized to enter the field, the citizens of Brazil were condemning the way the 14 billion dollars was blocked in building 14 stadiums. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government has organized 57,000 soldiers and 100,000 police who have been surrounded by soccer fields together with hotels of players and their training grounds. The results of the whole city of Sao Paulo has turned into a war field. One billion dollars will be used in defense and security even so, protests have continued across the country. The forces have used tear gas and bullets but failed to stop the angry people. Instead, they caused two protesters and three journalists injured on the opening. The anger broke out and the citizens were forced to use stones to protect themselves, while chanting "FIFA in our country" "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. These anger has been caused by several things, including sketches associated with these finals. For example, the Minas Arena have been given the right to own the Minerao stadium for a period of 25 years. They claim that they have invested 300 million dollars in knowing it. But what is known is that 180 million of those were given as a loan from the government of the government of Brazil (BNDES). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I mean they used public funds to invest in the project of citizens, and then they want them to get back their money "by leasing the stadium for 25 years this is just one example. There are other stadiums that have been built on this way of loans from the BNDES. President Ashma Rousseff of Brazil has been claiming the full cost of building plots is 4 billion dollars, but the real cost is approximately 14 billion dollars which is a large portion of loans from the public bank. Citizens are worried that the money will not be paid, something that has renewed their outrage to the referendum conducted recently, it has shown that 71 percent of Brazil's citizens are conservative. This is a huge increase from 55 percent last year. It is because they feel that billions of money used in the world cup is please be used in public services like education and treatment. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The World Cup is usually expected to connect the citizens of Brazil and provide a picture of development to the world and at the same time to promote tourism. Contrary, the image from a nation that is divided into the economy and the economy that does not meet the needs of the community. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The projects that started, like sports fields and infrastructure has cost more money than it is filed. As a result, the government has entered a loss when a few people have angered me. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For example, the Brasilia stadium has cost three times more than planned in the budget. It is because most of the money has been received by a few who have raped documents showing fake use. This is a modern stadium that has been given the name of veteran player, Manila Garrinla who was loved by the citizens of Brazil. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In 1983 he died in poor despite his main contribution to the sports field. His coffin was accompanied by millions of citizens. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25984881 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The problem of electricity is distribution of Valentine OBARA is not a government to launch a project that will increase 140 megawatts of electricity energy in the country is being added, although this is not enough to guarantee citizens better services for electricity distribution. The electricity distribution service in the country that is supervised by the Kenya Power company is one of the ones that are struggling greatly from the citizens and investors. Most of the time we have witnessed a lot of things from investors about the high cost of power energy, a situation that led them to raise the cost of the products or not to get losses in their businesses. Also, citizens who use electricity in their homes have been witnessing the disappearance of the power of electricity regularly. This situation makes many love to stay with questions about whether we are in the race to stay in competition with the nations that continue, because Kenya does not deserve this in the 21st century. That sector is among the most important areas in the efforts of raising the development of development in the country and lift the lives of life to the citizens. Therefore, it needs a lot of steps even though that is not enough to ensure they are taken to improve the provision of that service. The addition of the amount of power energy that is manufactured alone is not enough, as there are still those old techniques that will be used to distribute electricity. It is a must for Kenya Power to invest in modern technology equipment if we want to see changes in service delivery. It is a shame to be in this era, the residents of various streets in Nairobi, the capital city of Kenya that is respected by the international, they are forced to live in the dark without power energy for more than 24 hours because heavy rains have downtown. Shame! If the situation is the same in the capital city, you can't worry how it is in the farms especially in areas where rain is part of daily life. It will be wise if there will be no electricity equipment that can be endangered by the air, especially rain. It should be remembered that the government has been underway for several years now to increase the number of people who have access to electricity in the farms, although there is a style of Stima disappearance. There will be no benefit if the government will provide more weight production and forget to improve the methods of distribution of that service. The two issues are devastated and you deserve to be addressed together. There has been analysts of economic issues that are proposing to be empowered on another electricity distribution company which will bring competition to Kenya Power. In any business, competition leads to the concerned company to try more in service provision to customers. A good example is evident in the phone communication sector where the presence of many companies in the provision of those services has contributed greatly to enable the customers to make up the companies that feel they benefit them more. It should be required for them to discuss the issue of better distribution of electricity, not the efforts to increase the amount of electricity that produce it will not be beneficial to the citizens. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_11920812 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The defendants are not freed "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Nakajumo James, Moshi "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 11 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The resident magistrate court of Kilimanjaro Province has released four defendants including the Assistant Director of Natural Resources Unit, Doctor Charles Mlokozi, who were facing charges of transporting and 61 to go out of the country contrary to the law. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Resident Magistrate of the Court, Joakim Tiganga, urged the defendants after being found that they do not have a case to answer while the prosecution including 12 witnesses were unable to confirm the suit. Judge Tiganga said the prosecution has failed to prove to the court on how they participated or vowed to transport those animals worth 16 million shillings. Others who were released is the wildlife officer of the Natural Resources Center in Arusha, Nyangabo Musika, the former deputy commander of the Prevention of poaching in the Northern Region (Kremlin), Martina Nyangara emerged from the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA), Veregerald Anthony. However, other defendants in the case of economic crimes in the case to answer is the director of Bird and Traders Company of Arusha, Iddi Misanya, two citizens of the Netherlands, Artem Verderian and Edward Verderian. It was claimed in court that the defendant Misanya has a case to answer after it was revealed that the animals had arrested them. The Dutch defendants also have a case to respond to doing business contrary to the rules of the Immigration department. The three defendants have returned to custody and the case will be heard on September 13 and 14th this year. Previously it was claimed that the defendants were accused of transporting those animals on March 23 this year, through KIA Airport to go out of the country contrary to the law. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_86273131 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 152 Police expelled "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Gloria Tesha, Dodoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 08 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 200 police officers who were seen to go against the ethics of the police work including oppress the innocent citizens, have taken disciplinary action against them 152 have been sacked. That step has been taken in the period of January 2015 to June 2016 this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of the country Hamad Yusuf Masauni said that yesterday in parliament answering a question by the nominated member of parliament, Maryam Msabaha (Chadema). Masauni said the police force works in accordance with the law, regulations and procedures that are there. "However, there are a few soldiers who have been violated the ethics and good conduct of our police force as stipulated in the Standing Committee of Police (PGA) number 103," said Masauni and added that several disciplinary measures have been taken to servants who are seen to go against the ethics of the police work including beating the innocent citizens. "For instance, in the period starting from January 2015 to June 2016, 200 soldiers were taken against disciplinary action against them 152 were found guilty and sacked. Masauni said such measures will continue to be taken and insisted that, at all times the police has been supervising the law in implementing its responsibilities. A teacher in his primary question wanted to know until now the government has taken action against how many police are going against the law by beating the citizens and causing disabilities or deaths. He also said that how many police have been found guilty and sacked. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35666817 If a pepper spray is also devastating to parents maybe not to say In a girl when he is living in a difficult environment, the father and mother who have separated the father was living with another woman for her sister who is living with a mother of a fantic mother who does not know what you want to take me but you don't know if you don't find your father because you don't know what you don't take me but if you don't know if you don't get everything you know at that time I have not talked about something I have learned that they say. The equipment and to fulfill your needs is not the one that you don't know is it. Right Just come from where we girls must help us and our bosses because they have joined them in a relationship that you would not be able to make my life back. You know that it has been built up but you will continue to make sure that we will be helped by Havana that is why everything is organized until you should say even when we do you know you have arrested them for a long time later you will forget them for a long time he is paying for today, maybe that twenty-month long time he gives you an abortion. Nine months what he wants What is needed is you and your right decisions Say no romantic How do you do a daughter The first thing that I will do Jimmy as a daughter I do not know you completely to get involved in it, we want to do the meaning of my dreams, you know also having your clothes is leading. You are working for me not to feel but if you don't have the seeds you get a person, that is no direction, it starts first to make direction you are in the bridge is good or worse later. You have grown up your own decisions thus he is set up. While waiting to put the problems they are still struggling, you should not recognize you but also you have your goals that will help him will be taking the stage. Another of my daughters and I myself want to look for someone to start a relationship with a kind of person, htt; hes Twitter gt; mi would like to conclude by saying that Girls like girls, we should strive to stand by you, if you do not want to have to give you a basic thing to be assured. Or nothing wrong And in relationships not that when a girl must have a relationship This is your own decisions And it's not that if you are not there in relationships? You have no difference because in relationships there is positive and negative. First, you will see it's joy that he loves me but at the end of the day you come to be shocked but maybe I am at school as I am at school I'm with him when you need me to go today, you don't care this. And Going through my needs, I will go back to it and I will keep it well for delete and he will visit but he has got Gerald has come. He has used his time to lose their own level and helped to supervise as a mi is supposed to be troubling. In my decisions It's just a few to say that a girl should have decisions that we should be if you do not like you, if you do not like you to follow the punishment you don't want to look at the speed you do or do not know maybe If you do not get to be taken by anyone who heard a girl, I will not stand by if we are. And am surprised by saying one thing that Let's give him the statement that you can not be used here, they will not be used here to ask them in Twenty Street and why are they that so that to succeed you must be used for us because that does not exist for us if we can have a statement that we can do with it. Let us think that they love us to be advanced by the people we love to advance ourselves Thanks to the daughters of all the details that he has given to our today's topic, the decision to a girl in the romantic relationship has been heard especially when a daughter who felt alcohmi want to travel
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41153434 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TBS released a sports budget "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 03 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) has said that it will continue to set aside enough budget to make sure it becomes a representation in games involving public organizations and private institutions (SHIMMUTA), so as to build a relationship with other executives, what will raise education about quality standards of services and products, to the participants of that games. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the Marketing Officer of TBS, Hoda Mayugu, used the games that began on November 22nd this year, to educate the athletes in different ways, including the citizens that are near the areas where the games are taking place in Tanga province. Mayungu said that due to the fact that the games involve many people from organizations and different public institutions and private institutions, they found it is good to be the procedure of preparing early by setting up the budget, so that participants and use the opportunity to sell the public on various issues about quality standards. Mayugu said in the games of that kind, TBS succeeded more than a group of youths participating, while believing that it has people with influence that can help spread the education to others in their workplaces, home and elsewhere. The competition was launched officially on November 24th, this year by the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye, involved the public organizations and the private sector to set aside the budget for the purpose of developing those competitions, thus lift sports. He congratulated the organizations and institutions that participated in the competition and promised to ensure the employees of the public agencies will participate every year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98215394 The monologies of the business people of the province of Manyara have gone into conflicts with the revenue authority in the country, i AM a province of monara but they claim that it is not to agree with them in the estimates of the taxes that were allocated to go with the real state of their businesses together with the threats they received from some of the executives of that province, his writer Ben Mwaipaja from monara reports. Not I had just asked him that only when they love enough power that the police were directors of the board of this party because I was retailers but if they decide the chemistry saying the law says, but the law does not forget to watch the video I know I'm in the cold time a community Criteria The contents Guys lt; unk, gt; Manyara, doing a lot of time giving an explanation on several issues that was presented by conservatives in that meeting, the commissioner have the ability to read. Pay us start treatment under that Even if you go on the roof, you're not being treated like you like to be paid to you here and it is acceptable to mi Ben Mwaipaja.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_13394089 Yanga is also a range. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Rahel Pallangyo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 27 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The new head coach of Yanga, George Lwandamina has said that he is a believer in soccer unless it gives a chance to own football for a long time. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Lwandamina said in his philosophy that he will not be surprised by him and he was using his predecessor, Hans Pluijm but he would be keen in a lot of passport and short. Lwandamina who is expecting to start his task officially tomorrow Monday, he said that he is expecting to increase the success since he and Pluijm their philosophy has not been very different. "I would like my team to play with the ball, I don't want the ball to sit with the opponents and the only way to stop the opponents who don't take the ball is to play a lot of time as we can, therefore, and I am a believer of soccer for a lot of passport," said Lwandamina. Also, Lwandamina said that he has seen Yanga in his final match of the first round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League played by Ruvu Shooting and he has found it is a good team that did not require a new player, because the players are well technical but he is expecting to give it more serious. "Zambia's players are playing for more strength, here I see no power but technical are good, technical, confusing and strength is very good, so I have added a great team," said Lwandamina praised Pluijm that he has done a good job and promised to follow his footsteps in collaboration with him to ensure Yanga gets more success. "The aim is to ensure that Yanga becomes more threat and it will succeed more maybe even to play the finals of the African Champions League," said Lwandamina who has been released from Zesco United of Zambia. Lwandamina is expected to start his new responsibilities in Yanga club on Monday with the former technical bench where the team expects to start exercises. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3604 EXAMPLE _OFcitrus fruit
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_33431947 Members of the primary party of the agricultural produce of mnolela in the threats have explained his disappointment with the step officer of that council Frank difficult to pay the members of the second payment of cashews through the payment system through documents in store in store. The complaints have been presented at the emergency meeting where it was attended by a corporate officer, they have been advised to threats the aim being to get clarification about the second phase of cashew nuts whereby the chairman of the party, Hamisi and boxing has admitted the existence of money for the second phase of the payments, our reporter martin ulumbi has prepared the following report from the threats. It starts to members of the primary party of Amazola farming, to ask questions why I am not the Halloons of fake threats and buy. Blew himself up to home And she asks things Also say no That From today Until While Exercises why the organization run for reasons: Asked the question When he answered root, you are not seeing them I have the ability to pay the second payment But due to the real situation of the loan session that was given its chairperson was happy and reached the decision that the payments should be done by parties how this concept has been. The response to the vote was not the start of the members to promote them in a difficult time Previously those members who were led to the threats by stopping their two payments to other parties also can cashew nuts and fail to be taken to the school to know if you see the organizers that is present now you fail to ask for even service online, not to send them to schools in primary schools as well as an old man to accept the balance that we have finally decided to be published by the meeting, therefore, to the manager he aniep and the leadership of that province so that their payments can be done as soon as possible. The head of ink is joining the primary parties of the agricultural produce more than eighty years where only seven years have the ability to pay the second payment in fact the improvements in the cows are many.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_42536789 Police in Dar have killed three robbers, 2 bullets, 27 shots were arrested "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. January 6, 2017 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Three robbers who died on the way rushed to the hospital for treatment. Those criminals were arguing with the police and the two managed to run. The commander of the clip, Commissioner Simon Sirro, said the incident happened on January 4th this year, at 5: 20 am in Mikocheni area, that is in the White Star Tower with various commercial activities. He said in that event, the police succeeded to capture one officer of Sig Sauer with number P 229 with four bullets inside the Magazine. He added that the officer was arrested after a exchange of throwing bullets between the police and criminals who came to the area to investigate the robberies at one of the offices of that building. Commissioner Sirro said earlier those criminals were trapped by the police, after getting reports of the presence of police in that area, the five robbers who were ordered to surrender but they met the order and started shooting. In the exchange, three robbers were injured but died when they were rushed to hospital and two others fled the air. In another step, the army has been successful to arrest two suspects in theft of tourists who are Politics Nassoro (28), a resident of Buyuni and Ally Omary (35), a resident of Mafia, all the goals are fishermen. The suspects were arrested on January 4th this year, at seven o'clock in the afternoon, Buyuni Estate was alleged to have looting of various assets of tourists who are whites. The reports of that event was issued by the chairperson of Buyuni Estate, Shaban Shaa, that there are eight whites together with one Tanzanian, have been taken all assets after being attacked by criminals in Mapanya Island. In following the incident, then they arrested several suspects and various assets of those tourists and after the interview, they confessed to be involved in the incident with eight colleagues thus the investigation is ongoing in order to look for other suspects. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_51684222 Great because your children can make it a capital If you look at the system of the male system which is going on now in different places for now, for example, the Masai tribe is a capital. When he is in the stomach they have carried pregnant mmmmm then a man can give a cow to the parent of a woman in a parent who will be born after that birth, a woman is already married. That father who has already got to take a girl will give a cow to the small village after being insufficient. Fifteen or ten, the girl is married and the bad after he gets a child who cannot be brought down and it's because he is already a wife of a person to make it feel that poverty is the main cause of not doing what she did as a female child to think of things because they are made to be a business capital For me, I think the biggest thing here is maybe so that we should put it okay and we can be able to take a point of poverty only because of the critics when it comes to the family but when you are in a family does not discriminate a male child A female child but I think this is more than maybe to help their colleagues Saba to help Grace and the majority here is a system for the meaning of that Our families You find you for the Tanzanian boy If someone is understood in the family has attained thirty years old but it is still dependent on the family due to the systems that we become. It won't be a good environment for youth to prepare to be independent in the economy. He starts to discover themselves because of the age of ten and eight Who is recognized by our constitution because of a young man does not include a young man at the family level to prepare themselves as well as that is the biggest problem but second. There are problems in such a system. Traditional problems of these traditional problems that there are other people using traditional laws like those you said to sell the unborn child But we don't lie about poverty as poverty is the criterion to make a girl to reach goals because they can. I realize that poverty in his ability if he is doing an effort, he can tell me at the other time we do not know this week because we continue to complain about poverty, who is the responsibility of removing poverty even if you know that a big percentage are. The youth should also contact us. You see until empowerment The time they are oppressed, they decide. You may like us male children Actually you know He was able to be there that he didn't have a female child, I can't get to Swahili Time: Maybe what is doing for many female youth write about development To achieve their goals is to look at the differences with the male youth in our many African families who are working for a lot of work in home for example, they are all students going to school but coming out after a female child will find out, but when a young girl remains at home at the end of the day to do the Final. The things he said is very few but compared to the time he used the youth to read with the girl girl, read: A young man has spent a lot of time he will reach his goals but the girl's daughter becomes a barrier to him even to achieve his goals. But I think that if I think they have said that there is a lot of work, tweeting. In his work He becomes a young man to read is a boy who can be allowed from home to be able to get to his fellow youth to study but also number one at ten o'clock and two at eleven o'clock in the morning, the boy has made a good environment to achieve its goals than bin. And where you look at the side even where is education I am dedicated to a traditional example, we can reach here is just a small mind of the ability that is the ability to provide and That is caused by my parent, a boy is not a boy, because I know they will be news to go to the kitchen or do a lot of academic things that will help him help Do a good celebration is supposed to be except for the mother of home there is no need to read, I believe this is how young people know about our topic which was saying What is donate to a female boy If it reached its goals and is it here
query1501 spit expectorate
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_18420225 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For this hard work, Lukuvi the only one cannot be helped to help the land sector in the country for years is going through great changes, where its value we are, it is rising every day. There is a possibility that a few people who know well about the real value of the land that is a large part has not been tested since independence. If you want to know the real value of land, try to make investment, be private in that sector, then you'll see and undoubtedly you will be surprised. In urban and rural, nowadays the land is a resources that is being vied for too much, it has been a source of reasons for many conflicts and sometimes even disasters, people have met, others have got permanent disability. Unlike maybe during the previous phase, the land has been given a new view, we see his minister, William Lukuvi and his assistant, Angelina Mabula who went round in every corner of the country have turned out to be in conflicts. Laiti I could give an award or medal to the minister who did a good job in the year 2016, no doubt Lukuvi would be sold first. I would have changed, of course with his assistants, although not all, by trying to say the fact that all of them have been told that you are sent, to the extent that every place where Lukuvi has met with one type of conflict or land problems. I believe, Lukuvi admits, is one of the close aides of President John Magufuli who is no doubt happy. It is an enemy of land owners, including the leaders, where the club has changed, they use, some of them have been done to land, others are required to develop, otherwise it will go with water! The leaders, including the local government, villages in the country will have not like Lukuvi because of stealing the cry, sitting on their income sources. They don't know. Those who constructed in many areas in the city, including Dar es Salaam, if you remove them in a few areas that were tested and passed, they have passed away. I understand how they participated in one way or another in the allocation of land, plots or farms whose owners face conflicts. Some I believe that they are not like Lukuvi is the agents of plots and farms. Some of them started the pockets of their pockets, although their days have come at the end. Some of them ignored customers who wanted land for their use of different types. Also, experts, among the urban planning, land officers before the arrival of Lukuvi were bosses, seeing it was in sweat and these days have become small. Some of them lived in the verness, they found themselves in the land or intellectual ownership of plots, plantations, documents that took many years to receive, although these days I was told we should give it. As I explained earlier, the land sector is cross-cutting and ministries, many laws, has been conflicts, conflicts since the country got its independence 55 years ago. Why the conflicts of land does not end? A few who benefited, including the leaders, clever, among the scholars that killed the real value of land, brought it up or for buying, get free, and later they sell them through local officials, villages and agents, some of them are richest. That wealth that was found through the land, which we have been given to be a public property, you have left behind many conflicts that I have been told the Lake Region is leading in the country. Buyers of plots or farms for many years have been hurt, although they are now seeing light. As a result, the sector appeared to have a nuisance, the aka of evil and pain of many citizens, who wanted to invest in one way or another. The land, a curse, we have been told in the stories of religion that Kaini had killed and bury his brother, Abel on the ground and the curse has raised a majority of the world. We are told those who were asked to bring him the best harvest from the land so that they can be swept away, they are blamed. Many years later, the land that is very sensitive resources have continued to attract many to today. Look, a person who has invested in that sector in mind has the opportunity to live well, although in the urban side, the value of land has made it a way of causing disaster between farmers and breeders. I ask, now our generation are praying for the land, we are looking for one another, what will we leave the kids, our grandchildren of the future? The answer to this question is to set aside today, I guess it is our duty to all of us as a community to start looking at the land for a new view than it is now. We asked Lukuvi that he is walking the country and the whole country to solve a lot of land problems in urban and rural areas, we think he has nothing to do. I would have advised Lukuvi, whose friend since the age we met at the National Youth League (UV-CCM), along the Morogoro road, not afraid but icker. In that, Lukuvi has to understand that he has remained a leader with a stand, he will not stand up on that sector in that new perspective, thinking about how to change some of the laws governing that sector. I advise that the issue of getting documents to every owner of the land, plot or farm in the city and the villages should be given a new view, should be heard, if possible to use information available on these days easily to the public Identification Authority (Nida), the National Electoral Commission (NEC) or Rita to enable all land owners to get documents. The system of reviewing the ownership of different levels should be looked afresh so as to enable land to be resources that help in Tanzania to develop, borrow the bank or financial institutions that are trusted, not to be sold as it is now. My advice is to be monitored by the laws of that sector, to remove bureaucracy and great power to some people, including leaders and executives of the sector, that needs a national discussion. I do not want to believe that the issue to prepare and provide documents of plots or land to happen in the House or in the regional offices, it is important that the council should not be the authority of the agents of managing access to documents so as to help them get documents easily and generous in the collection of government. Along with that, the use of commercial land, construction of big buildings in the country, it is also a must that its laws should be handled in order for land taxes and buildings to the council to make sense, benefits to the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_18733458 The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) is in the process of looking for a coach to train his national football team popularly known as Twiga stars after his head coach Boniface Mkwasa to vie for himself how many times, the child who is currently waiting for the blessings of the competition, we expected to be done soon so as to ask for whom and how will they get the provincial police I can see the regions and the full report. All the general secretary forget that not, he has said that after the committee sitting will be given a chance to the teachers of that game that at work although it hasn't been known whether they will release that position outside the country. In that sitting, he has said that these delegates will go through the letter of missing together with reports of the last two matches which all Twiga stars lost. That first Kabati The technical committee will be called to discuss the report and the report of yeah, to study but also will discuss the report. Yeah, it does not pass the price and will give recommendations to ask them again to get their attention. However, after losing that games, our players has been reported to have been reported to play in the level where they got a good camp maybe than ever since they had already said that. He said he has been responsible for being beaten because he was given as a friend they have played two matches for the children. Rostam preparations were more questions than ever. A camp for a long time than any other team We have received two international friendly matches and a good team in Zimbabwe and Africans now in our teenagers Look for And that date from outside the process of looking for a ticket to participate in that competition are Africans for women now the federation has planned to take their own operations for you that I have contributed to the future Post-Tanzania Post
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_34107684 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Pepsi providers 20 / - contributing desks "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Kareny Masasy, Shinyanga "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 31 August 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Pepsi cold drinks company (SBC Tanzania Limited) has given 20 million shillings to contribute desks for the primary schools of Shinyanga municipality. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While handing over the money yesterday to his Worthy Mayor of the municipality, Gullan Mukadam, who is also the chairman of ALAT's national team, the general manager of the Lake Region, Nicklass Coetzer has said, the company has decided to give that contribution as a responsibility to help the community projects that are being implemented here in the country. Coetzer said, the donation they received is in supporting and implementing the objectives of President Magufuli, he urged the Tanzanian ambassador to cooperate and ensure all the students in the country are seated on the desks. He said they have decided to give that amount of money for the purpose of buying desks, that will be distributed to the schools that are in that municipality as a step of strengthening the profession in that municipality. His Worthy Mayor of Shinyanga Municipality, Gulam Mukadam thanked the leadership of that company, from the contribution they gave which will help, in reducing the gap of shortage of desks in primary schools that are in the municipality. Shinyanga district commissioner, Josephine Matiro, despite thanking the company, he said the contribution given will reduce by a huge amount of desks in primary schools that are in the municipality. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_48911393 Greenshot For the champions, I don't have a word to tell me my brother is that life here and there, but when I finished it yes, I will pray to God, he will make sure the preparations will not be understood. How is it yet this time? Don't end the city's navigation Saw the results of Manchester United yesterday. Aai Mister I have checked another step in the money you are here, we have put inside a slap when we go to be buried is if we are not there. I tell my brother but you know that soccer is still because it is not the end of the breath it is not the end of cooking. That's very true but mi also had my renovation about the decision of marefarii and as a small coach, there are things that don't do the same as maybe not that there is a big hole with a lot of players who can play in that position, there is a young man that is called Anderson when there is a number that is near but I fail when he plays someone like the joy is the city of forty years for the third. Mym Today and a mym ehr Therefore, it was a reason why a person is tired ready, he is tired of having upcoming young people to know about the weight of my body. The age of age is also great The covers will be censored cannot be a teenager That's very true but not somewhere we are still in good position yes. I have seen that he has been passing the amount of money he has been told to make his goals, maybe this in January then the season will expire and see if we can fall maybe number four even if possible number three.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41549149 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. RC Morogoro - Yanga, Yanga, Yanga "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by John Nditi, Morogoro "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 04 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Morogoro Provincial Commissioner, Doctor Stephen Kebwe has invited Simba and Yanga soccer teams to use the stadium of the Republic of Morogoro after being blocked by the government to use the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye the day before yesterday announced the ban of the old teams to use the National Stadium due to his fans to destroy the infrastructure of the stadium including breaking the ball and holding chairs in the premier league match that brought together the giants at the end of last week. Doctor Kebwe said that when he spoke to the leaders of Morogoro Football Association (MRFA), the leadership of the Jamhuri Stadium and the players of Morogoro Police soccer team together with their leaders after the completion of the First Division League match against Njombe town the day before yesterday at the stadium. That provincial commissioner said he is supporting the decision by Minister Nape to stop those teams with many fans to use that stadium. "The National Stadium has been built by our friends of China by using a high cost that is tax for citizens... Yanga and Simba have gone through the loss of the government and because they don't have a chance to use that stadium, we welcome them to use it at the Jamhuri Stadium because there is no seats to shine," said Doctor Kebwe. Therefore, he instructed the leadership of the Jamhuri Stadium to start producing huge renovation of infrastructure and the area of playing with other games so as to meet modern standards for the purpose of playing national and international games. "I call three months to the leaders of this stadium to start renovating them to be modern starting from athletics, football, hands and netball and while in those standards, we welcome them to invite Yanga and Simba to come and play at the Jamhuri Stadium," said Doctor Kebwe. In addition, Doctor Kebwe has praised Morogoro Police team for starting well in the First Division League competition in his group, he urged them to put more effort and knowledge by following the instructions of their teachers so as to play well in the next games inside and outside that province. "I would like to see Morogoro Police team moves to the premier league... that is why the provincial government and various local and foreign stakeholders have abandoned their energy to support this team to do well and eventually to play the premier league next season," said Doctor Kebwe. He said in order to promote football and others, it is good for the leadership of that stadium to take a step of renovating different areas for the purpose of being used. On his part, the chairperson of MRFA Pascal Kihanga said that the province has intended to see Morogoro Police team will return to the premier league and urged the players to come out because the sports stakeholders are together with them. Morogoro Regional Police Commander Ulrich Matei said the team is the property of the citizens of that province, therefore they have to support him because it is doing well it will bring him the reputation in the whole province and the police force in Morogoro. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_15946993 Politics have forgotten the risk of El Nino Sep 30, 2015 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The way for Tanzania to easily think of El-Nino rains which are expected to begin to fall next month can explain why our ability to fight disaster is small. What is clear is that we have not been seen before the disaster has not been on the wall but we stand up when the enemy is on the door. I have been following up on the broadcast of television and radio stations in Kenya and discovered that our colleagues have already started taking different steps to fight or at least reduce the effects that are expected to occur because of the disasters that are expected to fall in the East African region from the second week to the third of October. First, already El Nino has already been a major agenda in Kenya which will be discussed in mainstream media and social media every day, with the government giving information on what is doing and why the citizens are expected to do. According to one source, the government of Kenya has given a budget of 15 billion shillings for fighting the disaster of El Nino, the government has given five billion shillings while donors including the World Bank and the European Union promised to give 10 billion shillings that are remaining. Some states have begun to hold meetings with citizens in their areas to educate on how to deal with El Nino, while the National Anti-Maafa Center (NDOC) has planned to provide professional instructions, education and coordination of the central government and the provinces before the rains, during the rains and after the rains. But, the most important thing is that the various authorities of the Kenyan government in the cities, especially Nairobi have started to stir up in order to allow water to pass easily. The government has also been able to encourage citizens to do that activity in their streets. On the advice of experts, measures have been taken to put stones, cobbles or building a hard floor to prevent the erosion of some areas. Local governments have organized to relocate people in the valley areas that are expected to be affected by those rains. Special areas to relocate the affected people are already underway. Education has been given to people that they have been forced to pass through flood areas because it is best to delay but get safe at home. In the plans to deal with El Nino, Kenyans have organized 70,000 youths in their savings Force (an example of JKT) to deal with any emergency of reduced infrastructure while several other steps were taken to prepare to deal with the explosions. Kenyans have started thinking about how to deal with the effects of El Nino in various economic sectors including food and tourism. It is expected that those rains can destroy crops on the farm and run the tourists who will not be exploited to come to these areas in that period. Kenyans have also started to think how they can change the disaster as a grace by harvesting water, which otherwise will be lost in the sea. Advice has been given to the government of different cities to think of being built in ponds. It is possible, but at least people talk. Sisi yes? Maybe if the media I visit to find information is not right, I have never heard El I see how much we can do with its impact. And even if the discussion is there, then it is significantly less. For now, all our minds exist in election matters, we should forget that we shall choose only if we will be alive. Christianity, it doesn't matter who is ruling, Magufuli or Lowassa, CCM or Ukawa. Kenya where debates to deal with El Nino is many and has been given great weight in the media not that they do not have political issues that rule and shook the country. Currently, Kenya is facing a strike of teachers in the whole country who claim to have more salaries, while the government told them that it does not have money to pay them. Masiku several, if not a week students are at home. If that is not enough, the opponents of the Kenyan government of President Uhuru Kenyatta led by Raila Odinga, have started paying the issue of a political twist, as they used to claim to start the steps to remove him from office. But despite all that, Kenyans know that their survival and welfare of the country is important and therefore they don't forget that they have the responsibility of protecting the life, which without that no one else is a human being can do more than being buried and displaced. While Kenyans have decided to decide that truth, the Tanzanians have been violated and we are thinking about politics. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35186454 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Fastjet adds that the fifth plane of Fastjet Tanzania has added another plane of Airbus A319 at the number of its planes and therefore putting it to the airline of affordable flights to continue with its plans to increase its expansion and the need to increase the ability to carry on our local and international trips, it was the general manager of Fastjet Tanzania, John Corse. The pair adds that it is making a total number of opportunities available on the journey for customers to reach 1,000. Fastjet started its trips in the country in the year 2012and is now running using the A319 aircraft on its journey of the journey that involves Dar es Salaam, Mbeya, Mwanza, Kilimanjaro and Zanzibar and to make it focus on making air travel within Tanzania. Likewise, it introduced the international trips to Entebbe Ugandans in Uganda, Nairobi Kenya, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Johannesburg, South Africa and Lusaka in Zambia in a three-year period of running the activities. He went on to say, Twitter user added a ndegeography Tinean on the trip, it doesn't give an important opportunity to increase the frequency in our own way to meet the needs of the customers, and it helps in our aim of increasing one international way on our network for the year 2016Twitter. Likewise, Corse notes that the plane has been compared to Fastjet is good and it is great to fulfill the expansion of Fastjet activities. The A31930, which is an airplane, which provides a high level of efficiency and the lowest level of impact on the environment, in addition to higher levels of expression inside the political plane. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_11253078 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A wife in collaboration with his son killing her husband "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rashid Mkwinda "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. By Esther Macha, Mbeya "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mother and child to the residents of Iseche village in Mwambani division, Kwimba district in Mbeya Province are being wanted by the police force in the province on suspicion of killing her husband named, Silvester Alphonce Chikondo (55) after being attacked by his wife in collaboration with her male child. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the report of the police force to the press that was given by the police commander of Mbeya Province, Mbeya Region, councilor Athuman said that the incident happened on November 12th this year at 2.00 am at the Iseche village in that district. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Commander Athuman said that the deceased was found dead when he was coming from a drink alcohol when the mother in collaboration with her son started assaulting her in a white person for the alleged sexual harassment. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, Commander Athuman said that the wife of the late and his son attacked the deceased by beating her in the head, his soul and boxing with his wife known by the name Husullabnel (42) with his son Kondo Alphonce Chikondo (19). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking about the environment of the incident, Commander Athuman said that the technique used is assaulting him by beating after getting out of the house from going to drinking alcohol. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that the cause of that fight is a love affair following the late talking to another woman when they were caught with his wife when they were with alcohol when the wife of the late he got in with her and started bringing the request at the time. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After that beating from his wife and his son the late fell then died on the spot. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The mother with her child ran away and ran into the Anglican church after knowing her husband died and that the body of the deceased was operated and revealed that the brain was done and revealed that the brain was done and was causing her death. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, the police commander of Mbeya Province, assistant commissioner of police, councilor Athumani has called on the community especially couples to solve problems with the way of sitting on the table of talks and to build a motion instead of taking them to the law and using power since it is the opposite. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The law and also avoid possible problems. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, Commander said that anyone with information about where they are suspects should give them to the concerned authorities so that they are arrested and the law will take its course, otherwise to surrender themselves. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_76367205 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mbeya City fans "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. January 11, 2013, six fans of Mbeya City team have been arrested by the police force of Mbeya Province who allegedly involved in violence that happened just after the completion of the match between Mbeya City and Prisons that was played on October 28, this year at Sokoine Stadium. Speaking to this news reporter to the Head of Investigation in Mbeya Province, Robert Mayala said the fans were arrested just after the violence and they found that they are Mbeya City fans due to some of the leaders of that team to arrive at the police station for the purpose of helping them. Under investigation, he said that those suspects who were involved in the violence, that caused the Prisons vehicle being shot by two players injured, have appeared before the Court of Genesis of Mbeya the day before yesterday and their case is expected to be heard today. He added that today he will meet with the leaders of Mbeya Regional Football Association (MREFA), together with the leaders of Mbeya City team to talk about that issue which has been as a practice right now due to that such violence is not the first time. He said that right now they have a special strategies to control violence every day after the match, where they prepare a procedure to accompany the team after the match ended up to the camp, as violence came when the teams left the field. On his part, the secretary general of MREFA, Suleiman Haroub said that as a party they are working on that issue and they will make sure that those involved in the violence, they are arraigned before the law because they can't support such things. "We as a party we cannot keep quiet about the things of all this and I believe these are few hooligans, who have planned to disrupt and destroy the peace that is in sports including football in Mbeya Province," he said. Haroub said he believes among those suspects, there are also those who are not fans with their aim being to celebrate but to conduct violence. Mbeya fans have been requested to avoid violence but they take the ball as joy, they should start and finish in peace. Such violence had happened again in the Sokoine stadium when they met with Yanga and Mbeya City at the opening of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League game where it is alleged that Mbeya City fans did a big violence and broke the glass of vehicles of Yanga leaders. In that match that ended with those teams from a 1-1 draw. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_29792127 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government will take a precaution against the ongoing murders we have used to our country to be a peaceful island. We live without fear and worry about our life. But now, we live as people without sure of tomorrow due to the ongoing killings in the country. Brethren, this is going on in the country not a normal killing. Actually, it has reached a step by a Tanzanian to slaughter a fellow Tanzanian as an animal without compassion? Where is our country going? Even if someone has left the concerned authorities to hold him, but it is not a person to take care of the law and make such violence. We request the state agencies and the concerned authorities to take urgent warnings. This seeds that are planted now will come to be a big bomb later in our community. God bless Tanzania. Mzalendo is true. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_49064179 Women leading with HIV / AIDS in Dec 07, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Apart from the deliberate efforts of the government and the stakeholders of the fight against AIDS in the country, the situation is not satisfactory where the city of Dar es Salaam will hold the sixth position in Africa for the infection of that disease. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Dar es Salaam which is the largest city in Tanzania is estimated to have 210,000 people living with the AIDS virus where among them 58 percent are women, and according to the census of people and housing of the year 2012, the number of residents of that city is estimated to be 5 million. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the report of the AIDS situation in the world from the United Nations Development Program (UNAIDS) in the year 2015, Dar es Salaam city has been among the cities in Africa with a huge amount of HIV infection. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The UNAIDS officer in Tanzania, Fredrick Macha says 16 percent of all the new infections in Tanzania Mainland is taking place in Dar es Salaam city where for women aged 15-24, the amount of infection has reached 7%, the main reason being to engage in sex with a small age as well as the business of ahaba. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He explains that the infection from the mother to the child in Dar es Salaam is six percent (6%) despite the great efforts of the government and different stakeholders of the fight against AIDS, educate and encourage pregnant women to test and follow professional advice on how to protect HIV. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "The statistics of the ministry of health of the year (2011-2012), one out of five people in Dar es Salaam has a romantic relationship with more than one person, and often they do not safe sex, that is a big sign of the increase of infection especially to the married couples," said Macha. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, he has mentioned some of the factors and indicators that contribute to the presence of a huge increase in infection in the city as the rapid growth of economic and commercial activities that is causing the proliferation of people from various provinces in the country together with other nations. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Dar es Salaam as there are other cities in the world with a proliferation of cultures and traditions have also been affected by groups that are described to stimulate new HIV infections such as sex business, who are participating in sex with drugs and drug users. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "According to those statistics, out of 4 women involved in sex business, one is the victims and HIV virus (equivalent to 26 percent) .still among the five people who are participating in the same sex marriage, one person is affected, equivalent to 22.3 percent) and out of six people who use drugs through the needle, one is the victim of the HIV virus (equivalent to 15.5 percent)," said Macha. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, Macha said together with various challenges, Dar es Salaam city has been nominated to be one of the few examples of the world in the world's strategy to strengthen AIDS control in the cities (UNAIDS Fast Track Cities Initiative). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The strategy is to do major cities in Africa to be more accountable in increasing efficiency in the fight against AIDS in urban areas as the speed of infection and plenty of infections are in the city. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Together with the cities having a lot of resources, the system of health services is still accompanied by various challenges, especially in organizing and implementing good plans that make sure the involvement of all people especially special groups in the community, which the level of infection is big. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On his part, the minister of state, the office of the prime minister, policy, parliament, employment and people with disabilities, Jenista Mhagama says the current figures show that 6.2 percent of women in the country have been infected with AIDS, compared to 3.8 percent of men, something that needs more efforts to protect themselves. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "According to the research of the HIV virus infections (HIV) and Maralia (THMIS) of the year 2011 / 2012 on the side of Tanzania Mainland shows that a large number of women have been infected with that disease than men. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Minister Mhagama says that due to that research, the infection of the AIDS virus on the side of Tanzania Mainland is 5.3 percent and it is estimated that a total of 1,538,382 Tanzanians live with HIV where youths aged between 15-24 are 10.6 percent and children under the age of 15 is 11.8 percent. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1924 albinos clinic hospital
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_92563805 Completely, we know my conversation with me One in fact, we have seen not in blood we will look like a success in the bibs. Go back to our conversations for now to succeed in the new year You can have this subject of succeeding through what should I do? I want different positions you want to know your people who are tired of different goods of life What do we do? Ehit crown people to succeed in a total. Bibly through the first time they are required to trust God that we do not teach the areas of worship for himself after you believe in God, all the percentage that God can succeed and they are not convinced to do something so that these people arrived to go to the decorations that help the camps. There is a child who comes to all levels In this world if he is not told by the people It takes a member of parliament to take serious responsibilities to the president I take a person or all you must know Mister we need one of the positions there are words of being told the aides with that. You can't emerge, it is a must that the Bible is written by the source of everything is to hear that people are required to respect the issue that they should show that the service will help with God's success you can make anyone else. He was organized to be rich of matoke but God has told us that the rich and the people succeed in the money you receive what is there not to succeed Regarding God's worry, he is giving out that the president will not be given even if it is a must. We don't have a person who is running for presidency and fail and then starts again another father. He threw him for watching and from. Honorable Nelson Mandela passed through difficult problems but he was still a difficult president but it was still a president even when you see an end at the end of the day. He has gone through hard but it has not been easy to take that measure of the one to be told only even a step but we are still living with food as a god, he has been given gifts not a leader you will take a snack of the word. On the left Martha you will continue with him here, I have made it in a heart of only in the area to succeed if God asks if someone is going to respect the word of God's word he likes. Only when it is blessed with money we must be reached by it. Now I would like to ask my fellow Tanzanians and the current viewers who we are getting in the whole exercise of starting a new year to be followed by many people, their thoughts are coming from the general election of being a member of parliament gets information even when the councilor wants when he is doing because he is doing that the president wants everyone wants to go to the office, everyone wants to request my fellow Tanzanians. In Masasi, I can't come up They try to attract nationalists that do not have SudanRevolts Chickens follow the reports of Congo that walk the sentences but even Somalia should look at When it comes first to vie for the presidency, it is due to the cause of causing the country to act to the problems of why. A man should even learn and watch and follow and monitor the information and posts even if you don't have it, it will not be easy to be on the side of Chenge because I look for the honorable president since he went to power it is prepared well and it is Diamond. Now and you are not Even a lt; unk, gt;
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_86350955 The national football team Tanzania stars on December third this year will welcome the champions African football and The national team of Zambia emerging in the national friendly games that will be held in the city had been donated to the national stadium for the preparation of the match against Morocco to qualify for the finals of African nations together with the official launch of the country stars since the start of sponsorship of beer company. Tanzania a shadow through his Kilimanjaro beer. Kirundo and the full report, the coach has said that due to the level of soccer that is shown by the national team of Zambia, he is deciding to spend a lot of time to training his squad so as to place themselves in a good position of soccer that are recognized by the Federation of international soccer in the country who continue to training the squad of the national football team that was expected to go to Kampala this Friday for the purpose of the competition to contest for the finals of the African nations is now facing death. Reply on it then James Ehr Mi just here in the heart Reading the university When I predicted that the train will be played only to Captain. Saba was forced Look for the striker and the captain of the team this week Kaseja will not remain behind urging Tanzanians praying for the national team of Tanzania and Tanzania in all the matches that are facing breakfast when he took him back home to be employed in the whole country, Tanzania's national team stars. Our residents are not found The child is so mere I can't really be the manager of Kilimanjaro Beer which is the chief sponsors of the national team of Tanzania, Tanzania and the nation stars said they will continue to cooperate Hand in hand so that you can find great success in the life of soccer he used that opportunity keenly to the words of feeding them. For the first time Give a team Tanzanians in the meaning of the plot and we are organized there are different programs that have been prepared for the purpose of ensuring that AHH does not know about the cry for a few months in sports and entertainment channel ten one.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98131213 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The decorations of wedding tips and the fact that every wedding has its creativity, when it comes to decorations almost all the wedding is only one goal, it is to bring a unique atmosphere at that important day. In this, experts on decorations have come up with one great tips to consider the colors in your decorations. Here they are insisting to ensure the colors used in decorations should be compatible with the colors of wedding. This will help to bring a combination of one flavor. If you are using the painter or if you are a leader in your clothing, make sure that color also enter into the decorations of the hall or where you are doing it. If you suspect in doing so, it can destroy your goals, it is not bad to use white color and the colors that you want to use as a leader. Another important tips on the decorations are not confusing. Make sure that all the decorations that are used to go with the basic color. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35811443 The Chinese are accused of claims of abduction in Oct 23, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Chinese citizens, Li Naeng (33) has been arrested on alleged abduction of Tanzanite mineral contrary to the law of the country and caused the legal tension between the Tanzania Mining Agency (TMAA) and the resident magistrate of Hai District, Kilimanjaro Province that gave a controversial judgment against the citizens. In his controversial judgment, the court ordered a Chinese citizen who was arrested at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) and ordered his return to be transferred to those minerals worth millions of money. According to the verdict of that case, the accused pleaded guilty of being found with minerals without having legal documents, he was sentenced to three years in prison or pay a fine of 300,000 shillings in Tanzania. In addition to that fine, the verdict in which Citizen Mwema has seen its copy that they conclude that the accuser will return to parliament for being a legitimate owner. The way he was arrested "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. An investigation conducted by Good Citizen KIA and later confirmed by some TMAA officials notes that Li Naeng, with a passport number E 20203356 was arrested at the International Airport on October 17, this year, at 11: 56 by the inspector of TMAA where he was found with Tanzanite mineral worth $120348.80 (more than 190 million Tanzanian shillings). The investigation revealed that Li Naeng was arrested in an inspection area (x-ray) when he was preparing to leave the PW 723 aircraft, taking Nairobi to Kenya and later China, but after the inspection was found by the minerals that he had not had any documents and he was driving against the law. According to our investigation, which has been confirmed by some of the officers, Li had not had an important documents which include a large number of mining business (Per liences) and a permit for transporting minerals out of the country (export permit), contrary to the 2010 mining law. One of our news sources that we were partnering with in our investigation explains; "after the completion of the procedures of blocking the suspect to continue with his journey, he put and sign the form of the warrant that was given by TMAA number 000 and those minerals were opened in front of the police officer who was present at the field, Elicompassion A.Mtera, as a witness." Those reports are expected to be noted that after finishing all the procedures in the field (KIA), the suspect was taken to the police station at the field and opened the charge of controlling the mining of RB number KIA / RB / 359 / 2013. Its tomorrow, October 18 was taken to the Hai District Court and opened a case number 321 / 2013 of being found with minerals contrary to the law after inspection of minerals from the regional office to confirm those minerals is the Tanzanite type. Controversy "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Further investigation reports indicate that when a police station suspect was defended the payment documents of TRA (number: ID.01 / Bravo / 102118510 / 100167913 / 04TZ200025 / 100167913 / 04TZ200025 Moreover, in a step that adds the controversy of the scandal to TMAA officers, documents showing that they were beaten (Print) at 8: 19: 16 am when the suspect had already been arrested three hours ago (11: 56 am), while preparing to transport minerals. Also, the documents did not have the uri of TMAA or from the northern region's mining office as the law directed and even tourists buying minerals in normal shops, they are forced to take them to those offices so that their documents have received. Another controversy in the scandal is in charge of claims (TAX Invoice) of the Cultural Heritage Company Limited, number ch / INV.10-16 / 13 which shows that those minerals were worth 89,698,644 million and contrary to the real cost according to the uthamous minerals that was done by officers of the regional mining office. However, citizens' efforts to get the director of Cultural Heritage Limited, SeiffKhabahai, explained the participation of his company in that scandal didn't succeed since the phone number had been closed all the time. But reports claim that one of the famous business people in Arusha who has a great influence to top leaders in the government, who followed some of the officers of TMAA, with a copy of the court's judgment wanting to be given those minerals because the court ordered that action, however, the officers refused. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_34872107 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Wema Sepetu, though it is rumored that he doesn't know the father of the Bongo flavor films, Wema Sepetu who is a dear friend of Diamond Platinumz, has confirmed that he has pregnant for six months now. It has been a very long journey to find a child which is rumored to be one of the cause that made him play with Diamond after he discovered that he does not have the ability to hold abortions. Diamond called Zari Hassan and sent a goal and now they have a child with the name Latin. The reports of Wema said that a pregnant woman has attracted a lot to the actress but it has come up with rumors that he is not sure that the man who was divorced. Friday's newspaper reported that a fellow actress who is his great friend Acounty Ezekiel called him to know the truth about the rumors that the burden that he carried in the stomach is of one member of parliament but Wema did not open up so much. "Yes I am pregnant again for six months but about who the character will talk later," he answered. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_86742455 First short in the evening as our second day which says To be strong, he was told when we went to bosses on behalf not because I have jumped before seeing this year it means that it has got it. Who can I come to do instead, but summer The elderly and young people are prepared for good youth because they are their stories. Patox will be in Somalia only to look on highways. To say the word says to be given priority The first one Maganga is eating, you can call the first man that is coming first, it is a pencil, he can have a small house but you will tell mothers Another one because of the aware he is told you will be told But you can also seek goals if Simba's man becomes a woman or a man, they say they say to say no to the husband can take it My son because he is onda or he claims to my grandfather while he cannot get married but the old man does not want to go into the back they agree. Mzee is a bad woman being carried OUT. Where is it I can get Farewell to a man And then as mi I come with three in old age in the disease and among the stakeholders, he can get a child and a two woman has a sense of getting something in another body, but the others get the legacy that is still small we are changing the Charity to insult her father and he was small and he had not like me and my younger I was called to spread the small scale of minerals but it's some of the great challenges we got from the wall. The appearance of hair as it appears in front of the city but not a small child but the big one you have seen as a child if he has thirty years in prison for ten and five years, Haule food to understand what we say is two So old that the decisions are in the age of age here is the groom but the laziness of you are saying they are two So old that they are still paid. You will give you a lot of elders it is the controller to end the ethics here especially in smells, and they should remember that all those with a stand is people whose hypocrisy will give Mserbia, leaving others not to understand that they remain as a number of projects and several because of God's ability but even a little bit. He's a bowl, he sees the bridge on bail. What makes it clear what if you look at more
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_51917294 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. SMS for love made a passion from him since I got to you aunt. I'm 38 years Old and I've got it. The day before yesterday I got SMS of love for my wife's phone and since that day my feelings of his affair have been done. What should I do? Through the SMS will depend on who was the one who wrote that message. If he is, then there is words. If it is a man, do not tolerate your wife because it is normal for women to be led and perhaps he does not have any activities with him. Speak with him about that message so as to know the step of taking. I had the knowledge on my aunt, I was wrong in the things up to my friend when I used me to use drugs. Since that time I have nothing wrong. Now my mother is saying that I have a close plan. What should I do to come back to my previous situation? Through SMS, it is wrong to use any drugs without the doctor's instructions. My advice is that it's a doctor that makes me feel like he will help him. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_78645733 Twitter lt; unk, gt; got a lot of others as we realized they were demanding that sir, you know our bad education is not the others we have not read about seven other secondary at the moment it was given a member and we are small Said maybe we tell you many secrets and there are some who dare to get the branches. This success is a miraculous human being. But there are others said that maybe they don't have kneeling at all hours think that maybe someone is holding him there. Others continued to say that there is a business but still getting customers a little problems there was a lot of things that AHH we normally have a lot of bad things that we see is the foundation thing to do the next period for the future. So I would like to use this opportunity You can't think the motions given. And now maybe it is now. We're going inside for one thing and time by asking questions as well. You can tell us in a very simple language because most of our viewers will understand Which are the ways and statements to sign The last time we talked about when it was hit on the enthusiasm of inside charles pai But it is WhatsApp. Which was going through the procedures we understand so that most of our viewers will also learn to pass through those things that are not yours and to see like other things but also do not forget. Work Where to start the beginning? When people went to know with the procedures if you had God Father, he died or we are the ones that says the local hope that you get the capital when you get very close to me and I know in a way that a common man will understand. The first thing that I have seen as I started with Mister funeral I heard a place where I wanted to succeed And this being built is that I have reached a place and I got a lot of enthusiasm for England they call it apart design and Desire again, it is good yet to give them when it needs to accept it well for the benefit of their viewers. That's also the product in the morning when I woke up in the morning I am going to work, you find your problems when you see life, you see how it comes to you, you find your own problems when you know how life is, how can it come to get that, the desire of inside a Desire there is two ways that you can get it from the first way that many people are receiving it. That situation around the problems and many things going around. It is a place for it. He has also had no answer and there is no answer, it has reached the place that life has lost. It is over. Trouble we have agreed to think about the place where responsibilities have grown Bana. And you don't have a way to handle it now, you are and and I wish you become a desire to come from where you are Samson, the environment around you may be another reason but it's too much but the second reason there is what you suggest. A reason: When you want to go through a vision of malaria one in the second reason but here I want to talk about it in this place where you want to go to you, maybe I will have a better house today I wish and I will be my children not to get a better school. I wish me to be able to travel as my colleagues at the table, I wish me to have a better life to win because you want to put a picture of the place and want to go. It can enter Bana if you look at the life that they were while looking at that you want to go. The reason for where you want to go to it, it's great to win life. It is creating a statement to be done that the summer in Samatta is making a lot of inspiration by saying that sir, it doesn't matter what an obstacle that will be in front of me look at the place where you want to go to AHH continues to leave the problems they will continue to accept and accept that it comes as an inspiration and it is something that is being built on day until the fire is burning in your heart because they believe it is not a must that will happen to you, I went from the place to speak out of getting married to their heart. I have got the first reputation from that, I heard a place where I saw that life is a better life to win if you want to live for this, it will begin to build that if the farm was supposed to live life and Majaliwa when you saw today I saw today because I saw it. There is a better life While there is a life of honor
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58786653 One Although it was told that the writing of art Journalist Sophia Simba operates While doing so I will go back and put it up how your teachers didn't teach. The artist I think the end to us but this guys are from. So You can get a message but I see you get a message to them and they are the usual writing that I request for journalists to be fit, how can they do in your life. To be able to stand with the journalists there is a writer of books like how many hours a day wrote a book showing a difference between a journalist from the police and the writer can do things well now. For the writing that they have a mother to copy the young people, the list of people who are using a lot of words can be able to get a copy we are together Don't hida this hit two weeks have been such a stir. And the writer who wrote the harsh words of his colleague will hear the pain It is a writer who is fostering now I am very worried about it. He considers himself from home in the morning to tell the children The animals has gone too much, the cabinet is due to a child that is why he told her father who is still in that word, the word will be surprised how I will grow up in a situation that you can only get in a situation that you can only get in a situation that you can only get in a situation that you can only have a sense of words to deliver but maybe the child will be given that the father is unable to get religion because of this and recently, things are going on well and that is the writer's parents and journalists who are unique with the journalists who want to report it but I hear I have heard.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_30693219 Ehr In which way wherever you are, I hope you have a good morning the edition is on February first of the two and ten thousand, it is inviting them to the news report I called Alice Marco close. The government has changed all the buyers of their Indians so as to benefit the small farmer and it has changed the procedure of providing input subsidies that he started being used in the next season of agriculture, those changes have been announced by the minister of agriculture, food and corporate, Stephen Wasira while speaking to Indian farmers and inspected the exercise of paying debts of maize farmers in Namtumbo district and Ruvuma province in Ruvuma province for more information, unite and has no needs. Here is Tanzania? Just yours After seeing the four exercise He has not said the procedures and now the purchase of maize by using the agents seems to have warned them to grow because those agents has not been registered and they are prepared for me the price they want a procedure that will be used in the whole country from the next season, it will enable our agents to register and enter into a contract with the national agency for food and announcing the price of maize by farming before buying maize by farmers we cannot stay in this dream. The agency has warned the farmer to the son until the last breath So I am saying from all groups and... There is a specific contract between someone who wants to be a ka And he asks him for the next season and he is happy Our constitution that allows you to steal five hundred thousand shillings. So, when they say he is even buying the area? And he will pay a farmer. The changes of the fertilizer grant, Honorable Wasira has said that the current procedure of the government carry a stone for farming has been used badly and to benefit the input agents and Vocha there are citizens banks in Mbinga town. I tell you now farmers of cashews in groups Their groups so paid is in groups have been stopped. They are given fertilizer on loan when they sell their crops Twitter lt; unk, gt; Speaking with anger after growing the maize in Namtumbo district and I have requested the government to do every way so that farmers have not paid their money early in the season of farming, even if it is a certain amount that will enable me to work because we are focusing on agriculture like the work now on that basis until now where we have now hurt the life of another season in life of the maize by claims that its cost of maize seems to be very low but the passengers why he is above now, you are suffering from coming from talking to the ones that are organizing us. Their citizens
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_85184098 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The main responsibility of the government is to destroy crime and to protect citizens and property to destroy crime is the main responsibility of any government. Among the leaders that were given priority is the safety of citizens and property wherever they are. All over the world, every government make sure there is security of citizens and their properties. The small United Nations has flourished if Kenya should know the safety of citizens and their properties is the main responsibility. However, our government has decided to ensure the security and security by announcing it will allow 10,000 police officers every year to ensure there is security to the citizens. In order to attain this goal of controlling the crime from homosexuals to the national level, the government has said that we will use modern methods to ensure safety exists. It will put digital cameras on the highway and also put the satellite into all corners of the country. The issue of bringing the traffic cameras, the famous CCTV broke down although all towns in the country has not been able to get that project followed by several challenges. Moses Sethole, Kajiado. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_27091997 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Referees not to keep talking to the Premier League "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by editor "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 12 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The first round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League the season of the year 2016 / 17 has been completed on Thursday after Yanga finished his second leg against Ruvu Shooting team of Coast. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That game that took place at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, was previously held on Wednesday together with other matches including Simba and Prisons, but it was pushed back after JKT asked. The national building team requested the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) through the league board urging them to bring them ahead of one day after getting tired of the long journey from Bukoba, Kagera where I had a match at the end of last week. Together with the results of their game against Yanga who were scored 2-1, the big one is the end of the first round of that league that involves a total of 16 teams. That league was finalized we will have a representatives of Tanzania Mainland in the international competition of the champions league together with that of the African Confederation. The first round has ended with a lot of challenges, which are supposed to be amended or not we will continue to be an actor in national football for the club and even our national teams. All the days when you have a national premier league, undoubtedly you will get a weak national team because its players are benefiting from the clubs, which are participating in that bad league that is not competitive. On the side of the club, they are the same as the team will get a championship without using the mind, strength or their efforts, thus he will be found a champion who is not capable, who is participating in the international competition will be released early. The first round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League have witnessed a huge tension on the side of the referees, some of them have been unable to comply with 17 soccer laws by being formed. It is possible for other referees to form a bad luck and some did so intentionally after being pushed by pressure from some side or others did not want to do so, but because of no knowledge of those laws, that is why they found themselves in trouble. To know the law is one issue and to implement it is another issue, therefore, that can also be the existence of our referees, who have failed to do well. On the side of TFF themselves, they are required to be very careful because we have seen the mistakes of referees have ever caused incidents of breach of peace as at the National Stadium, where Simba fans broke chairs. Referees being unable to follow the procedures or soccer laws not only can cause non-wise lovers and to destroy the infrastructure, they can also be the referees. It is the expectation of soccer stakeholders to be TFF in the second round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, it will take a big step to ensure the referees that are planned to make soccer in justice without any privilege. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1814 flooding goat animal
query3215 predecessors
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84789711 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. You are the referee there is no one year of luck or the one that I have been asked so much like this science to end the year and the other start should not have been there, the situation would have been. I don't know how the situation would have happened to this period, every person laments life has been difficult. In our mind, especially us that the lives have transformed us, we believe the year has changed to be good for a certain amount. In my heart there is some relief. The body comes with a certain power and a spirit of doing great things. I remember when it reached October last year, every person who asked him to be told this year the last year. Another, he told me a year that was divided and it becomes very difficult for him. Many ask them about 2016 they will tell you not to be heard. This science helps in psychology because now everyone feels like a strong and new hope. But will you succeed in continuing with faith? Still like 360 this year to come to an end, is we waiting again to reach October to start giving excuses for this year that it is no different from the previous year. Now the story that is in the year 2016 was difficult, if this year things will not stay okay, you know when it comes in October it will help them? Two years this has been very disturbing to me. That situation will continue until four and the end will say the administration of President John Magufuli did not like me completely, my life has been very difficult. Basically until now you will have heard that the game is to change the technique because it appears to speed it will be. The slogan is now working. Please don't ask me to do it, I don't know. For example, my condition is difficult when I don't have the job or the cost of the time I asked me because there was a situation. Those of dezodcast is going on and one don't exist anymore and they don't see Li for coming back soon. Here is the foundation is to be able to reach a point of life now used or continue to eat the same thing so that the goals that you have done this year will find one year. One of our goals do not Even have a better life, now it's doing plans to be implemented (Real Usorganize) depending on the wonders of the number of years. Usually, 2017 is your lucky year. Lucky is the mix of dedication and position (opportunity). Don't expect a space when you are preparing for a miracle. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_66619356 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. More than 30 people were killed by a huge fire with the organization SLAVYANSK, Ukraine, more than 30 people were killed after the fire, which was caused by hooligans, burn the city of Odessa, in Southern Ukraine, while the riots witness the country after the government took office. The government is reportedly supported by Western nations. The Minister of Internal Affairs said approximately 31 people died in the fire that happened on Friday, while media houses in the country say that ISIS supported by Russia are believed to be inside the building that was burnt. Many died due to severe smoke, while others died when they tried to produce the windows. Russia said it was saddened by the incident while in that town near the resurrection of the sea while the fear is rising in that country following a one-month conflict. It's been reported that Russia is planning to attack the country to retaliate from being attacked by people being attacked by its citizens. Meanwhile, clashes between Russia and Ukraine and Ukraine started afresh in the city of Slavyanair. The protests led to the deaths of two more Ukrainian soldiers, and at least 9 people who have been killed in the eastern city of the country for one day. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_57526876 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mnyika will be thrown out to Jun 20, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The state of the debate on the government's budget for the financial year 2012 / 2013 in parliament is not satisfactory, some of the members of parliament showing the little ability to afford economic debates and instead, they have directed them to the competition of political arguments, the government has ruled among them the amount of throwing words that are non-civilization, Citizen Mwema, has noted. That situation is seen when the Minister of Finance, Doctor. William Mgimwa has already announced his budget with Shadow Finance Minister, from the opposition camp, Kabwe, while presenting his alternative budget that has been published in the local pages of this newspaper. The trend of displaced and politically motivated violence has come out among the members of parliament two days after the debate on the budget started by members of parliament, John Mnyika, Mwigulu Nchemba, Peter Msigwa and Captain John Komba, Chiku About, Kangi Ligora, Ezekiah Wenje, on a way in the trend of debates, it has proven itself in the political argument, but the minister of state, office of the president, parliament and coordination, William Lukuvi, calling on leaders of the parliamentary camps to be on the forefront to protect the honor of that national pillar, that represents the public. The member of parliament for Ubungo, John Mnyika (CHADEMA) who compared some of the members of parliament equivalent to the "pain" not to be responded to their concerns and said that the Revolutionary Party (CCM) is nonsense and the president is weak, found himself out of the parliament hall after Lukuvi, to read the regulations regarding the procedure of parliamentary debates to confirm that, Mnyika has broken the procedures. Previously, before Mnyika he said the president is weak and compared some of the members of parliament to be the same as the pain and CCM is nonsense, the situation that made the deputy speaker, Job Ndugai, wanting him to look for those words in explanation that it is an annoying language, which is against the regulations of running the parliament activities. After the time of window, Mnyika opened the statement of calling the others to be allowed to continue with the debate, but as he continues, the member of parliament of Iringa Town, Pastor Peter Msigwa was involved in saying words, contrary to the regulations of the parliament that directed other members of parliament not to speak when their colleague speaks with the speaker's permission. But when Mnyika giving that language, as well as claiming that the president is weak, contrary to the requirements of the parliamentary regulations and to reach a step of being released outside the parliament hall, the member of parliament of Iramba West, Mwigulu Nchemba, the day before yesterday evening, in a state of showing political violence, he called a budget that was organized by the opposition camp in parliament that it is "waste" and decided to put the copy of the speech that he was holding on the hand while contributing to the debate. However, in what proves the weakness of the leading session of that day, chairman Silvester Mabumba, was unable to control the government's attention. Apart from those members of parliament, the member of parliament for Singida East, Tundu Lissu, on Monday also compared the session of parliamentary meetings about the budget to be the same as the season of ignorance (silly season), but on his part, the member of parliament of Mbinga West, Captain John Komba (CCM), who requested for civilization will be taken to parliament and warned that, if the boxing camp will be used because the number of their boxing is small and the side of CCM have a lot of boxing. As members of parliament were intended to show misconduct within the axis, the noise that aren't prepared or consent of the deputy speaker who was leading the session were many, one side of the noise showing the situation of being bullied by others, trying to show that the cry of bullied is not correct. It is a discussion that is translated to denying citizens an opportunity to know more about the economic and cultural situation in general, from their representatives who now have decided to enter into political tensions. The Deputy speaker of Parliament, Job Ndugai tried to stop the weather by using the rapist, assisted by Minister Lukuvi. But some of the concerns raised by the opposition members is together with the statement of the member of parliament of Mwibara, Kangi Ligora, who was surprised with the members of parliament without respecting the Revolutionary Party that pay the salaries. Kangi Lugola is one of the few members of CCM who had signed a document of not having faith in the prime minister, under the coordination of Kigoma North member of parliament, Kabwe, found himself in a difficult time, after the Mbozi West member of parliament, David Silinde wanted a guide to the speaker so as to look for that statement, an argument that was emphasized by the member of parliament, James Mbatia. In his argument, Silinde urged the government to fix his instructions which outlined mistakes that are available in the speech of the opposition camp, and especially in the collection of revenue collection. But Silinde was opposed by the member of parliament, Christopher Ole Sendeka who read the book of the opposition budget speech to confirm those mistakes and at the same time, reading the book of the Minister of Finance, Doctor. William Mgimwa, to confirm what is described as a concentration in the writing of the budget. The current meeting of parliament will return to the previous meetings where the three members of CHADEMA had been released outside the sessions, with the mistake of not following the requirements of the regulations of the parliamentary sessions. The members of parliament of CHADEMA that have ever been released outside the parliament hall is together with the former member of parliament of Arusha Town, Godbless Lema, the member of parliament of Singida East, Tundu Lissu and the member of parliament of Iringa Town, Pastor Peter Msigwa. While the members of parliament signing a record of being released outside the parliament in this 10th parliament, in the ninth parliament, the member of parliament for Bariadi East, John Cheyo, once was released outside the parliament hall and the former speaker of that time, Samuel Sitta. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_15038613 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Activists used to stop the protests in New York, the United States, a national team of activists on Tuesday refused to stop the protest against the police in New York, after two police officers killed. Instead, that union wants to be a big protest in the eve of the new year. The largest city in the United States has left the shock following the murder of the officers; Wenjian Liu, 32, and Rafael Ramos, 40, were shot in heads when they were inside their patrol vehicle in Brooklyn on Saturday. A person who killed the officers were identified as Ismaaic Brinsley, 28, who police say was known for being tolerated by police officers, and that he was alive soon after implementing the killings. Brinsley was written on her Instagram account, the details that appeared to be against the government and spoke about the killing of two black people recently. Several cities in the United States have been hit by a series of protests against the killings of the police officers. And AFP "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84918732 Mino Raiola has given out the hidden secret about Mourinho and Pogba, that has passed a month and a half since the former Juventus mid-fielder Paul Pogba joined his former team, Manchester United with a bundle of 105 euros, the agent of that player, Mino Raiola has opened up about the secret that many people were not aware. Raiola has said that before coach Mourinho to sign him while Pogba was in Manchester Unite, he started to need Pogba since he was teaching Chelsea but he was unable to join him due to agree that had been on Pogba to assist first Juventus to win the European Champions League (UEFA Champions League). "Paul was to go on Twitter 91; Juventus on 93; last year because of Jose Mourinho when he was in Chelsea, they really wanted them," said Raiola and added. "But I and Juventus had an agreement, win the championship of the league and the Champions League, and after that he would leave." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_16437435 Ehr Where are we affected by this East African region. On his face in soccer Everyone along Uganda: Everything Different from us I don't think we are behind. In the three soccer schools contrary to the meaning in the need is still difficult for the punishment we are supposed to make investors who are faith that the people were not present in investing but now you know that many of those who are not present is that they want that the fruits to be given fast in the ball in the ball is invested in mind after ten years I see out to know its fruits, there is an education that is in place for them not to invest in mind, but we are still looking at the government with the bus and when they went to them. Where then it seems that they have a good direction like Uganda four one helps him and his government in soccer schools so let it reach now, even if you appreciate it then the government will help you so that it is still focused on cereal and Twitter lt; unk, gt; and sports here. But the judgment as I heard about people investing in soccer Also you know to invest that it will give and receiving it not to finish you get in this time, it was giving out plenty of time now, it needs a very difficult soul and a solution. However, things I need education if you do not have ivu to Invest in investment in soccer you need to truly withdraw from Resurrection and Holiness. To give us public education We should know there are so many people with the ability But now they must get when they get educated and faith we don't dare They will be able Tini we are a coach and we believe that you are wrong with you, that's a big role then close to the players here in the once ever. Here, if you are talking about a very good example, there is still a big problem in the attacking position, we see our league to live and know that he is from the country in the country to bring a very good way to the soccer professionals. Httgt; provides a contribution to the country. Here on a certain thing or when we reached an international coach, I want players not to mention the head, our children should start the process. We as the teachers are that we are responsible for self-thinking that we are responsible but the activities are coming so that the youth yesterday can be with the benzene that the campaign is free and asks you. But what to do at the field becomes different from what the best chance comes to a young man First to give them taught, there is no work on work and we are still putting on a lot of young people in a young man where there are no teachers where there is no teacher where it needs to do but then every teacher needs to do well and a certain person to school comes a day of tradition, I could get very much and we are still working for young people who have arrested the teachings Now there are some of the teachings.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_83602796 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 20 December 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The national anthem will improve the entrepreneurship training "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. And Grace Ndossa "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The executive secretary of the National Council for economic empowerment (NEEC) Dkt.Anacbring Kashmir has said that after the national guidance of entrepreneurship training was approved, there is no college that will be allowed to provide entrepreneurship training without following the law. Dkt.Kashasked gave the statement in Dar es Salaam yesterday during a one-day workshop to get opinions of the stakeholders about the national guidance on entrepreneurship education. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "We want standards that are like to provide a vibrant graduate since many have graduated from entrepreneurship training, they can't do their activities well," said Dkt.Kashyou. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that the guide will enable the country to produce entrepreneurs because they will benefit the competitive market and others to produce products that can be taken to other countries. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He insisted that after the guide was approved, those who will not have the ability to follow them on other activities of doing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He urged the stakeholders to prepare for the purpose of using that guide, a step that will remove the current state of people to provide entrepreneurship training but not similar to others are poor. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Previously the executive director of the Tanzania Education Institute Dkt.Paul Mushi launching the guide on behalf of the Minister of Education and Vocational Training, Doctor. Shukuru Kawambwa said that the guide will help to ensure that the implementation of entrepreneurship education has put in the important areas of the nation and all education providers so as to enable Tanzanians to improve themselves academically and economically. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that the guide has been prepared in order to give direction in the methods and the results of testing and testing methods, the reputation and qualifications of the facilitator that are required, because the standards will help to lead the training and test the results of the learning process. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He also said that the guide has revealed and separate the official system that is not official in providing training on entrepreneurship education, the aim is to enable the beneficiaries to be able to use context and build knowledge and direction according to the education environment. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_56054313 Those are the late when they lose you, they don't know God I have lived there without it as Arsenal and mania AHH, naturally, I don't know what he is fighting. It's not that today I'm going to be used to someone and we have refused. I am saying that even when I have never seen those things So ohh And this is where he is gone and you know what I've seen in Nyanga This guy came to the side of allsopes
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_93962697 Like that, the revolutionary party has blessed the decision of President Jakaya Kikwete to review the council of ministers to bless President Kikwete's decision to review the council after receiving that easy report about his intention to be on top of ministers in government being associated with various nude committees of the investigation and was revealed to be involved in the acts of embezzlement and talks of the executive committee of the party together with the committee of members of parliament about the issues raised in the seventh meeting of the executive committee of the union of Tanzania, which ended on Monday after that secretary of ideology and publicity, Nape Nnauye met with journalists explaining about the decision of the executive committee of our writer, mitten students has prepared the following report. Now we are receiving a good job of strengthening the system and to control and get strong opposition is available in the government meeting with the secretary general of the revolutionary party ideology and publicity, Nape Nnauye and the main aim is the report that happened at the party's main committee that met today in the city. Together with other things, Nape spoke about the report of President Jakaya Kikwete to make changes to the cabinet of ministers The executive committee It has been destroyed and has blessed the decision of the president of the republic of the United Republic of Tanzania, Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete and there was a review of the cabinet of ministers and other institutions that were compared to those reports. But And Tweet Period Ministers responsible for weight The way they were involved Electricity and ministers are government officials And Which has been linked to one way or another with embezzlement shown in the report of the chief inspector of government accounts Parliamentary elections report and parliamentary debates Likewise, that committee has also appointed the executive secretary of the provinces of the revolutionary party including the new provinces of Njombe province Simiyu province and the province of western region, speaker Kapaya Shaibu Akwilombe three to plan. Eight said women Five brothers of busy Ramadan Takuri This will tell the separation of the separation?
query1721 afternoon
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_13650574 In a news report when the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania, Tanzania, Tanzania, has said that during the opening of the building of the central Diocese of East and Coast on suspicion of violating the procedures of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania, has said that during the opening of the building of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in East Africa will be the construction of hospitality of eight hundred million shillings and five in our life sesilia molo has gone more information when we look for a trap to tell me that God will pay the exhibition to officially open it is true and he got an opportunity to inspect this idea in the name of the father and son and the holy spirit. And opened the minister and of the son and the holy soul amen The launch of the building of the church of the church of k k t, don't listen to this idea in the east and coastal region just after the launch, the Archbishop of the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of Tanzania, Tanzania, Tanzania, guarantee Alex Malasusa urged parents and guardians to use the teachings of God in the upbringing of their children And the presidential results Now The department In sex is still available The story was an entire month Where are you? We also don't know what things are. And while they are implementing In another step, you find Malasusa has stopped monitoring two pastors of the church for claims of violating the church ethics And on time Also you are looking for the construction of the church to harass this idea, htt; unk, gt; started in two thousand and four thousand, Cecilia molo tibi is not a specialist.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_72965816 AHH is what we have voting for you and I have to tell you that I have told me that I have decided to go back to go. Let's talk about it? I haven't given me when I decided to give me back in the morning. The morning I felt like how many hours. I want to speak up at ten o'clock and I have arrived there with a style of cars Ten and two hours are not early I want it to go to the same that and the mstrine Ohh and I was writing Nelson was found It was not found until today when he was going to go to the same. When it was destroyed, it is also when he was born and went to the same with that money since he got a time. May you know the money took to different people Ohh was like a group where Jane did to take the way he would take him. Then it took another one that he had taken to a m _ money each other was asking for people to be going to the groups of these mothers then he is taking the loan so far it is only money not one person then I don't know he was to register them together and he went and it's like he is gone to open a place. Now ohh debt will be many. Ehhe's lt; hes tgt; if he has never been found then he is hiding in me when he was next to MOI or is the only one to enter. He is gone to open. He went on twenty-eighth in the month of this month It is worth it should be twenty-eight years ago but for themselves. When that game has married his mother, he has said that close people are scared first because it was still a foot has been known now and there is no way to you and even in school. This sides, their area with people to crush someone reading they are and theft even read again, there is no way to do it god, he would go just to go, he should go just because of the ticket he knows someone being done only by writing it is not like this other work will be written immediately quickly. The heavyweight doesn't even end up even when his mother had Never invited me to go there before he has not gone to me to give her a palm, it is a person that he can stay because it is vio, also groups becomes a problem, but yesterday with a help it is the same as he reduces it. It's palm palm, a number of people who are ready to sit for now is naval and the problem, it is good or what you will help. When the day check up, you see if he can block it was a long time. Mi wonder if I am surprised if they didn't get a Baby Class when the virus returns until the third grade is still. He did not do with that problem, it's a mother, he says we cannot pay someone I don't know what it is for many Kenyatta University is to be vied for, I don't know where I am not paying. Therefore, it has given it because it seems that the teachers had to go to work for prayer. Ehhe engineer rinda tell me that I saw me I see me.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58538908 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. SADC to beat drug dealers Aug 08, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The fight against the use of drug trafficking in the country is expected to take a new chapter, after the East African Development Community (SADC), planning to deal with that business by using collective energy of the country. Those details have been given Monday this week by the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation of Tanzania, Bernard Membe, when he was speaking at the television show of general on Monday, run by legendary journalist, General Ulimwengu, every Monday at Channel Ten television station. Countries that form SADC from Tanzania include South Africa, Zimbabwe, Angola, Botswana, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Swaziland, Zambia and Seyshelles. Madagascar has been called for the membership of the community. It is in some of those countries where some of the countries have been cut off with drugs and the latest incident is the arrest of popular artist Agnes Masogange and Mellis Edward, who were arrested in South Africa at the International Airport of Oliver tambo and drugs that are claimed to have a value of more than six billion shillings. Speaking about that issue, Minister Membe said the fight against drugs is big and he gave a call to people with goals of wanting to vie for the presidency in the year 2015 to do the fight against drugs to be among their agenda, by considering that the use of those drugs are the destruction of the youth. Membe who was the leader of SADC observers in Zimbabwe's general elections recently, spoke about the trend of the election saying that the draft constitution will be presented in the next session of the heads of that union that will take place in Malawi. In the election of Zimbabwe, the ruling ZANU-PF party of President Robert Mugabe (89) which formed a campaign to fight for land and land in the direction of opposing foreigners, especially the whites that own a large portion of land in the country, managed to get a white member of parliament, Joshua Sacco. Sacco has won the parliamentary seat of Chimanfaith in East and amazing nations to follow the country's politics. Mugabe has been joked that Joshua is a white man at the end of Zanu- PF. In the year 2009, Joshua was elected as the deputy secretary of production at ZANU PF on the side of the youth and was the first white person to hold that position in Zimbabwe. That was surprising is to see the white man in the elimination stage to get the ZANU-PF consent to vie for the parliamentary seat, he voted for the former member of parliament of that party and the deputy minister of economy, planning and investment in Zimbabwe, Samuel Undenge. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_86629945 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The journalists have said weet, until things are known, but journalists are like amier. Their work is to speak out and those involved know, but do not inform us, the results are getting publicly kweeting. There are many. Before the start of the premier league season, journalists in an article and normal news quoted various experts, they wrote a lot to remind of that before the league started, it needs players of all teams to test their health. It was a very important thing. I Don't know whether the work happened or is done to More than 400 players of the Premier League teams, I Don't think. It needs a club to test the health of his players every time so as to overcome the problem of falling on the field and sometimes losing life. They both wrote. It was also written that the players are required to have been paid for health insurance. If a player will be given a health insurance, it will help him and his family by paying a little amount of money. It will enable even a player to go to test for his time. I'm not sure if all 400 players have health insurance. Last week, it was sad and tears losing the upcoming, Ismail Mrisho Khalfan who was serving Mbao FC of U-20 in Bukoba town. I can say it is a result of the leaders of the team not listening to him and he is working to test their players for different reasons. That of Bukoba is the result, but look at the league is over, every leader of his mind is to play with his work in the second round, what he will do to win the championship. After the end of the first round of the premier league, the truth I have not heard a certain team has made tests to its players, even the pictures of the spread of them, no. The first round has ended and now it is near the second and the teams have started preparation, was being tested for health; the pressure is the same? What is the consummation of the body? Who is supposed to get the service? They played a row and got fatigue, they should go back to the body by doing what? I Don't know whether it happened. This is one of the players to test the health, there is this of the managers of the game to allow the game to continue without having the first free service. There is one match that was played at the Karume Stadium, Dar es Salaam. I don't remember it was who and who I remember is that, in that game, the player was hurt, he had his fellow players to accompany their colleague to go out for the game to continue. There are many sports events but they miss the first service. How is it possible for the referee to start a battle while there is no even a car for the first service? This is the work of practice. The referee or the supervisor of the game is supposed to inspect if every area has been completed by helping with his assistants. Most of the matches will be played but there is no first service that is done nor service providers who are qualified in sports services, and maybe the ones that are, or they do not have expertise or they do not have experience and what is happening is a practice for them to be in the field. Not being keen, especially the desk of the first service, the results of the players lost their lives. For example, a player has been faced with a problem, the concerned person is what you know is to throw the muscles, welcome him to the snow, but if there will be some they don't lie. It needs real experts. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_36940003 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 'do not show the children with greed for covers' "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Kareny Masasy, Shinyanga "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 14 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The education officer in Shinyanga province, Mohamed Kahundi, has advised parents to educate their children and not to make them studies for their marry so that they can get livestock, because doing so makes the right to get education and build poverty. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He gave that advice at the end of the week at the form four graduation at Kom secondary school. That advice resulted from the continued presence of parents who refuse to educate their female children so as to remove them and get livestock. Kahundi said in the current world education is everything in giving birth to a child, therefore it is good for parents in Shinyanga province to change their negative attitude and focus on education to their children who will be able to help in life later. "If you put an end to the child is the same as saving your life later when you click it and to give us strength to work, because he is the one who will come to make it into your guardian and he will bring him well with education," he said. In addition, he added that it is good for now parents in the province to stop appreciating the livestock than a person's personality, but to get education and educate their children so that later they will be the fruits of education and having better life and eradicate poverty. The chairman of the board of that school, Peter Kuguru, urged parents to build a culture of monitoring the development of their children in school and to prevent them from all the needs, so as to avoid them from the ds that they have been making their dreams. The head of that school, Mwita Warioba, said that the students who graduated from the form four studies are 10 girls, 60 girls and 84 boys. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1030 under the bed
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_21833164 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Q-Tasi who came from recently, ampa Kaisari of Kaisari since he decided to see the support of Mister last year, the musician Q-Tasi has made a lot of temptation including losing her father and blasphed by some of his fans who felt that it will get the artist. Fauka of all, Q-Tasi holding his new faith despite all the challenges in the period that he has been able to release his first gospel song 'Kaisari' which he involved Doctor in the beat. However, the songs are not introducing Q-Tasi especially 'I go back OUT' among others that want to give an income that the artist has decided to give it a donation to various people. "The money I've got through my initial work before seeing the light," "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1036 rat animal
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45027320 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The ministry's statements, BMT to be consistent W last week, the Ministry of Information, Arts, Culture and Sports together with his body, the National Sports Council (BMT), made statements about the stand of those agencies in sports this year. Those statements were made in a special interview with this newspaper when he wanted to hear the voice of the government after starting the new year of 2017. The deputy minister of information, arts, culture and sports, Anastazia Wambura said the government is giving a warning to the leaders of sports parties that this is a year of implementation of sports in actions and the time of bringing the propaganda is over. Wambura insisted that this year will be a problem for leaders who are used to lead sports in tension and that the government will need the implementation, efficiency and the aim is to make a year to be successful. He said 2017, to be the year of preparation for the Commonwealth Games of 2018, the African Games of 2019, and the Olympic Games that was planned to take place in the year 2020. Wambura said the government wants to see every leader of the game of the game is implementing its responsibilities, including a year of success. BMT, through his secretary general, Mohamed Kiganja has promised that 2017 will not be a year to shame the leader of any sports party that will fail to implement its responsibilities fully. Kiganja has said that it has passed the year of implementation of those actions, bad leaders should inform them and that it will start in the district to the nation. He said starting from now the preparations song will not come to heads of sports parties and he has planned to meet with them tomorrow so as to start giving strategies. When we add that plan, especially since the government has already seen the weakness of the year 2016 which Tanzania continued to be the head of this madness. Such statements are creating, but on the basis that they should not end up being a statements to the media, it turned into a strong implementation and actions. This issue of the minister crossing parties to make and implement the activities and BMT to control the leaders who sell sports parties to the village, it will reverse the honor of this sector. A citizen can ask ourselves now, Tanzania is estimated to have 50 million people at the moment, where we get 100 athletes who are iva in different games to represent the Olympic Games? The fact is that most of the sports parties are not in the sake of sports, they are not in order to manage sports programs to their parties, more than turning the village to look and look for international federations that are being sent to the development of the concerned games, but there is no matter of what is being hit. For starting, we think the ministry and BMT to make a census of parties that are in the country, the existing games and remaining the ones that do not agree, to be improved, get better to follow and remain a few things that will have the ability to meet the expectations of the citizens especially the lovers of the concerned game. We believe, together with those statements, the collective power between the ministry, BMT, Directorate of Sports Development, the registrar of parties and sports clubs together with the Olympic Committee of Tanzania (TOC). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_61874021 While in the province of Honorable President Jakaya Kikwete launching the science and technology of Nelson Mandela, the tour, President Kikwete was accompanied by the Vice President Doctor Gharib Bilali who is the head of that science and technology institution, a student of the science and technology institution of Nelson Mandela providing information to President Kikwete on how those who do research on crops and professional ways can be used to make and like so far. Meaning of that in the last fire Who Religion but Someone can ask and seems to capture the bombs As the authority After being given information and technology, Honorable President Kikwete and Vice President Bilali passed the gun a memory And for us, he put a good performance by roughing the researchers to manage to end the calm of the discovery of people that they can show where there is no doubt about Mandela different with good entertainment. The deputy head of the university, but manila asked Kikwete to kill me what is happening in the institution has focused close to the traditional and postgraduate market. The purpose of finishing this problem On A number of fifty houses have started to check it still has started research. Ago and we have research and journalism activities, the vice president and the head of the science and technology institution of Nelson Mandela, Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilali can have the expectations of the two university to use that project a father when they go. The results involved that a long time we thank the father of the predecessor to get physical as the guidelines are accused of participating in being afraid of returning back. Clap martin Kadinda identity and welcome welcome was not the news I ask many will be in groups has come after God here and third until the end AHH does not have a mistake you have been understood for marketing and seven so we need the events I have in the same way.
query1982 makeup cosmetics
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_39084797 The International Criminal Court does not have today made the first session in front of the public against the reputation he suggested that the child was the president of Libya and the president of Libya. It is not accused of being involved in war crimes against rebels who hit the government of his father last year. A report from Libya are saying that different differences have emerged about whether to be restored in Libya or in the ICC court In the hague His lawyers are helping to oppose any proposal of his case to be heard in Libya saying that he will get a fair trial in the country. However, the senior officials in that country want his case to be evicted Lydia On the first day the session, the lawyer confronted Ahmed called for the international community to be tolerance While urging the judges of the court to understand that Libya officials need more time to organize a justice case against Mister Seif vessel.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_90880686 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Shein added ZSSF to build modern houses "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by special correspondent, Zanzibar "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 06 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The president of Zanzibar and the chairperson of Revolutions Council, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein has commended the efforts made by the Zanzibar Social Security Fund (ZSSF), to run development projects with productivity, including modern houses in Mbweni area. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Doctor Shein said that within six years of his leadership, ZSSF has done well by starting several projects including the construction of the grounds of playing for the children of Kariakoo Unguja and Tibora Pemba, the construction of the 50-year anniversary of the revolution, together with the construction of the train station which will start next month. In his explanation, when he visited that project of Mbweni the day before yesterday, Doctor Shein said that the construction of modern houses has great benefits and will have 252 houses including three and four rooms. Previously, the executive director of that fund, Abdulwakil Haji Hafidh, told Doctor Shein that the construction of 18 apartment buildings is expected to be completed at the end of the year 2018 and is expected to cost 43 billion shillings. That director explained that the project will have 18 apartment buildings that will be built for three different phases, where already the construction of five buildings with 70 houses. He explained that in the initial stages, the organization has spent eight billion shillings where the construction of 55 houses is ongoing and they have already got buyers that will go with them. Hafidh explained that the project of Mbweni houses originally planned for the purpose of citizens with middle income and low income, and will be sold out of 168 million to 249 million, but it has been revealed that many people will not be made, therefore the fund has decided to build low-income earners in the Trash area. He noted that, the first phase of that project which includes the construction of five buildings, will end in April next year and followed by the construction of another eight building in the second phase and in the third phase construction of the remaining floor. He explained that, they have already started looking for buyers that have visited different parts of the country and outside, for advertising while explaining to that those houses will have areas of important services including shops and big modern hall. That director said that deliberate efforts have been done to ensure the construction of those houses is very stable under the construction company "Dezo Civil Construction Limited with its headquarters in Dar es Salaam. While giving explanations while taking round the construction of those houses, the manager of planning, investment and research of the Social Security Fund, Zanzibar, Khalifa Muumin Hilal, assured President Shein that those houses are strong. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_40076383 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Parliamentary Committee to consider the views of the citizens on APR 03, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The special assembly of the constitution is in its seventh week out of 10 that was given earlier, and it is this week that has been involved in the official opening of the draft constitution; an important document and the only one that brought to the members of that parliament, to use them to write a new constitution. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The days that are remaining for the purpose of discussing the document is very few than used in making regulations that will lead the discussion of the historic parliament, and even if they will be added 20, according to the law, it may not be completed to complete the hard work. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is not our intention to criticize the regulations of leading the delegates, because we know the importance of the existence of strong regulations; even if there are those that have already been broken before even it will not start being used and we do not want to say that the long time is not enough. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We believe that it is more important in this period of discussing the draft, it is for delegates to consider the views of citizens; that is what the citizens want to be in their constitution, for their benefit in daily life and future generations. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We are not the first to give this call and we will not be the last to do so, but we have to continue asking the delegates to consider the opinion of the citizens because in many debates that was witnessed from Dodoma, many delegates seem to be pushed by the views and opinions of their parties. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Examples are many, but big and clear are the one to decide the type of vote that is not used in passing the sections of the draft constitution, the small issue but distributed the delegates in the political party regardless of what the citizens wanted from them. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Even when the regulations were unprecedented on who between the president and the chairperson of the Constitutional Review Commission should be the first to address the parliament; political ideology and the attitude of the constitution should be the first to address the parliament; political ideology and the attitude of the constitution is ruling even if ordinary citizens are not great. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. And now there are every signs of existence of pressure from outside the parliament after the leaders of the political parties that are outside Dodoma started a journey to visit the whole country to encourage citizens to support the system of the union that is required by the concerned party. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. So, what does this mean? How will these tours help the Parliament of the constitution? What is the government's position in this? Is the parliament doesn't have the ability to restrictions and command not to be left immediately for these ridiculous tours can be devastated by violence among the people of Tanzania. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We know and many know that the time to comment on the changes of the constitution was given and it has been completed. For now, it is the shifts of delegates of the Constitutional Assembly to discuss in Dodoma; when they finish those, that is when it comes to the shifts of citizens voting for the draft that will be made in Dodoma. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Now the "mere" will be taken to the public at this time when their opinions cannot be brought to the draft in Dodoma is why if it is not free to make sure that the only work for them is to vote for the referendum? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That is why we would like to see the delegates discussed the draft without pressure from the outside of Dodoma nor their parties, but by considering the opinions of the citizens and especially the content in the documents they will use during this debate; among these documents being the draft, the following of the draft constitution, the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania and that of Zanzibar. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_60620538 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Quality Group, Soninvited to start linking tractors in the country "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Hellen Mlacky "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 25 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Quality Group Limited (QGL) in collaboration with the Soninvited International Tractors Limited have signed a contract to start connecting machines and agricultural equipment in the country including tractors as part of supporting the efforts of President Doctor. John Magufuli to make Tanzania a industrial country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking after signing that agreement in Dar es Salaam City, the Marketing Manager of QGL, Timoth Shuma said they have already completed the initial stages of starting that factory which will be built in Morogoro province and its investment will be between 50 billion and 100 billion shillings. He said that for now the cost of buying a tractor is big because of the cost of transportation until we go to the country thus when they start producing equipment and to unite in that factory will reduce the cost and therefore farmers do modern and business farming. Read Habarileo on October 26 for more news. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_19302548 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Human rights meet to discuss the indicators of conflicts "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Lucy Ngowi "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 12 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Representatives of the Human Rights Commission of East Africa, have met in Dar es Salaam to look at different indicators of conflicts since 2013 and discovered that many are focused on land issues and governance. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The chairperson of the Human Rights Commission and Good Governance in the country, Bahame Nyanguda said that the representatives met for three days and discovered those indicators of conflicts and agreed to work together so as to solve the situation. He said they discovered many conflicts are in land or land resources like minerals, oil, gas, use of water, forests, breeders and farmers, borders, investors and citizens together with the use of human land and wildlife. Likewise, he said many conflicts in the East African countries was there before, and after the elections because politics has not giving the equality to the perpetrators. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_92174224 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Jeptoo was at risk of losing 54 million shillings on a Kenyan drug Rita Jeptoo Sitienei, who refused a four-year ban after his second measure to prove the first thing that brought him to the use of pufya. At the same time, it may be stripped of a lump of 554.2 million he received by winning World Marathon Majors who won by winning Chicago Marathon and Boston Marathon of the year 2013 and 2014. The Kenyan Athletics Federation, AK, received the second results of Jeptoo's tests from the laboratory that will be bombed by Pufya, WADA in Switzerland on Friday. "We have received the second results depending on the laws of the World Athletics Federation, IAAF. There is no difference between the second and the first ones, "the report from AK said. Jeptoo's shame started on October 31 when AK announced to be saddened by the first results of Jeptoo. The results were felt throughout the world as Jeptoo is a Kenyan scientist who was so much. Jeptoo asked for the second measure and that now has confirmed the results they have not completed. On December 15, AK reported that the drugs he used in the muscle was used by Erin ietin (EPO). Jeptoo was denied outside the competition on September 25 in Eldo. His first trial was released on November 4, 2014. His second measure was made last week between December 17 and December 19. Jeptoo is currently facing a Chicago Marathon title of this year, which put him on the list of World Marcos Majors and 100 points with 35 points more than number two, Kenyan Edna Kiplat. The Chicago Marathon is accompanied with a 6.8 million prize, while World Marathon champion Majors sold 45.2 million. During the period of 10 years, 48 athletes of Kenya were determined by the use of those drugs, 32 were caught in a period of five years. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_61651294 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Msuva calls Kichuya, Muzamir "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Rahel Pallangyo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 06 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yanga striker, Simon Msuva has been selected to be the best player of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League in October. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the information officer of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Alfred Lucas said Msuva has defeated the players Shiza Kichuya and Muzamir Yassin of Simba. "Msuva had two close competitors in the race of October from Simba, who are Shiza Kichuya and Muzamir Yassin and defeating him," said Lucas. In October that had six rounds, Msuva helped his team to get 14 points after scoring four goals, and gave five minutes to end. By winning the award for the best player of the month, Msuva will be awarded one million shillings from the sponsors of that league, Vodacom Tanzania. Last season Msuva emerged the best Premier League player and is among the players who were called to the national team squad that will play with Zimbabwe on November 13. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1744 AIDS disease
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41135985 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 70 houses being demolished in Dodoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Sifa Lubasi, Dodoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 09 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The campaign to demolish houses so that the road should be closed, it has been done well by the residents of Sechney and Amani neighborhoods located in Dodoma municipality. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That response that was received with words and actions, will enable approximately 70 houses that are in the road areas, demolition and thus pave way for the construction of those roads. The councilor of that ward, Juma Mazengo (CCM), said, 70 houses with 2,000 families that were built in the streets of Sedney and Amani, have agreed to pave way for road construction so that the citizens can get social services. Mazengo said that all the people were married to their houses, they have been interested in other areas so as to pave way for the roads so that the residents of those areas can be able to get services that are taken and the presence of the road without problems. Those services include the soccer clubs, patients and even buses. "When a pregnant woman and a car is supposed to go to the door, let us be a big problem. For sure the social services to arrive in these areas was hard, we sat on sessions and agree to demolish these houses so that we can get the road, "said Mazengo. The majority of women in the streets adds that the move that said it is liberation in the community because the lack of roads was one of the problems that deprives them especially when it comes to childbirth. While speaking to journalists yesterday at the time of demolishing the house so that the roads to the road, the mother said they have made it difficult during childbirth because of the vehicle being unable to get into their residential areas. One of those women, Amina Issa said when he was pregnant for the second child, it was very busy due to the vehicle failing to enter the area, a situation that forced her husband to carry out the border on the highway to get transportation. The chairperson of Sechney Estate, Norbat Pangasero said they used more education to educate citizens the importance of getting social services so that they can get development. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88503221 The citizens of Ruvuma province have been encouraged to build a practice of drinking milk soon instead of using the drink during the Ruvuma province commissioner, Said Thabit Mwambungu has said that during the launch of the commemoration of the milk week that took place nationally in Ruvuma province Adam Indians the witness. The Provincial Commissioner of Ruvuma province, Honorable Mister concrete Mwambungu has said that in school drinking water was held in that province due to a small awareness, you know milk that the citizens of Ruvuma province. Mix It will help us Of milk, seven and twenty projects are expected to lead to the removal of milk. The forecast is one and a point like us Okay they run to search of milk Then as they Drinking the cards, they used poison He suffered from milk. And the Story asked him to say the milk But ye himself, his culture and milk is no need You are supposed to make sure that they are affected. For a year of six human beings of the production of milk production in the country, Doctor Hamisi Kigwangalla has said that in order to build a nation with a good mind, it needs young children who live in milk early, but their brain broke down after preserving the memory that the family at home where it is not using the growth of children, that is what the growth of children in the family But also mental ability In making the child to be reached in school activities, the brain doesn't want to get more from the processing of milk processing in the country, a guarantee doctor has said that the rearing of practice is the cause of getting a lot of milk to produce a lot of milk in the country, Tanzania has urged the citizens of the hard province to boiling milk before they used to find a lot of equipment for processing the chairman of the milk board, Warioba has urged the citizens of the hard province to boiling milk before they used to find a lot of products in the rainy season but during the summer it is not available and this is because many people have not been encouraged to be informed on how to preserve the use of a modern way, therefore it becomes a challenge for instance and for instance. The mother of the mother Shamsa who was like what happened in Kenya now and in the past. Women's women Such customers While praying for his brother to school delivery in Ruvuma province to do so as to give milk in the prison prison in Ruvuma province, students of the primary schools of motorcycle riders known as the answer, let us be able to end the milk drinking week on one month of six and ten thousand shillings. And
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45939972 Tibet news when women from all nations in the world celebrated their holiday, Hans have continued to be different to women living in the villages due to lack of enough understanding. That education is given to various groups in their hearts and the people living in the city have not given priority Due to various challenges that are facing them, however, despite the laws mentioned to oppose the woman Kenyatta, the bull system has continued to make various opportunities including the right to live despite us in the province. Busega District in the province Simiyu commended us as the way it is to inform these were in Mwanza province but in the province of Busega in Busega district announcing some of the challenges facing women especially living in the villages. Women's day in the world is sometimes celebrated in the world amid various challenges mentioned to be an obstacle to save a woman against injustice. Earlier this morning are expected to start with various implementation In the middle of the village of nyamikoma in Busega district in Simiyu Province. Various activities are going on on the shores of the largest if it is an aluminy can make people of age and gender are doing this business for their income. To a large extent who are self-employed here is a big group of women that despite running their daily lives, lt; unk, gt; they admit to know the women's day in the world even though the village is to be evicted Until the end, you are going to the city, while the village is not going to take part in our responsibilities we are women because we are nights the government really makes this so much, we need to talk with us women Miraji we want to bring us to the children projects, we do not have all the loans Public service We would like to do it. Technical know how we can understand. But I have seen you to explain to know the rights of a woman And not we can In the middle of the crowd seems to be a mother today a cow while in his daily activities including this mother is also a guardian of the entertainment group and mobilization of political songs. Let them look again. Barren And Old Trafford sitting next to the residents of Tanga, it was noted That after six candidates: Those who don't have to ask about the things that I have made on their side are able to use a living life. Women and women Mainstream we have elected us when I have never seen him again when I came back to come. A long time inside saying to me, my people that I have never seen. A group or we were surprised when the day brings about the importance of protecting the rights of women and gender equality, those rights are not being made when it increased the big wave of the elderly people who is involved with faith in witchcraft and other things we are and when you get there for example, maybe someone is being viewed, maybe someone is being viewed by a speaker going to take food directly to the eyes have not been the Commonwealth. We go through firewood where our eyes are the red shirts we are told we are witches we are causing bad things The social welfare officer in Busega district sees a violation of human rights including the rights of women to be implemented as required if the community will get enough education on the side of the government not to know where they were allocated or all the people we are going to be there today to teach the children to sit down so that it can create but if we teach how much they were asked to have them, although others have been expelled from their faith to find out. Ehr I can't be with. The commemoration of the women's day in the world takes place on March eight every year for this year was commemorated nationally in Morogoro Province in a slogan that says empowering women implementing while it is now called the rastatt recently.
query1214 the eye
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_71073398 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Diva: Bongo stars aware of their Values, I Nachaji 3.5 million on Twitter "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The presenter of Clouds FM, Diva the Bawse has urged the stars of Tanzania to recognize the value of their brand and stop taking it cool. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He has claimed that most of the stars have been used for free to benefit the other people and he thinks it is important to let him get that amount. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He claims on his part, he does not do something free and claimed that even in one hour on someone's party, he must be paid. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "My standard rate is 3.5 million in one Night, including 30 minutes hosting, and more than Hour left," Diva wrote on his blog. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Reach the stage celebs to know their value and not just for the benefit of other people. Whatever you see, I see in my social media account, you must know if you are popular, you must even tweet the brand of another person, "he added. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The reporter has more than 1.1 million followers on Instagram and he has been taking a lot of money for dropping different announcements. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3366 inherited
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_97646248 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Majaliwa is looking for the commemoration of the disabled day "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Sifa Lubasi, Dodoma "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 01 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The commemoration of the day of people with disabilities in the world, which nationally were expected to take place on December 3, this year in Dar es Salaam, have been postponed and now every province will celebrate alone to reduce costs. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While giving a statement to the postponement, the minister of state, office of the president, regional administration and local government (Tamisemi), George Simbachawene, has said the request of the district council is to send members of the parties with disabilities so as to make those commemorations in Dar es Salaam city. He said the instructions given by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa to the provincial heads is that instead of the national commemorations to collect people with disabilities in the provinces to Dar es Salaam to work in their regions. "Let me take this opportunity instructed the provincial heads and the heads of districts and directors to make sure they provide enough cooperation of these parties so that they can achieve those commemorations," said Simbachawene. He has directed the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda, to ensure that the area they had planned to do that activity by giving them the support that they deserve. Simbachawene has said that the situation will help to reduce the cost instead of all they would be transported from the provinces and go to Dar es Salaam and now what is happening in the provinces and districts. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_63487975 AHH we know how I say I am good and we are going to work today or where you are rapists Halo three bags still in the third month I don't have the words that Mister is fit but AHH I'm in good place here is just where it is just how things are in a small car. Today I am going to work today I have won another job here at the moment I was dealing with another one here now, I am not going on to see another one here now, but it won't get the maize they are not going to be destroyed again when I went right now when I take up again the third place is I come back. When the question is ok like I am bass I have gone to the Best does not have many Best words mym I lost your Rada for the tough head. How do you say then and the moon has gone. When you do something difficult, you know that it can happen anytime but we don't want to go, we know he cannot happen at this time and you know the station took this hour but you know you must stay Rada I know. So why are these people to see Rada there are companies saying AKO. Not you know it is a must for us to make sure that it should be done right now and see if he can be .' Mym since that in the street Mister America or where you are in your place, I have not left the left, but if you have not entered the folks I see it is no words I see is the same. Mmm for a while in mym Ehr AHH there but plunging a buda but I know he is very fit to eat I can't stop. AHH is still going to go and do not know his ones even when you go for a sixty-screen screen for us, So these people will join me and I can't ush it too. Mym ehhe super now is going to get a bowl. If it should be that and we are also no exercise or let's ask them every month Where is it? When you left the exercise, you know that is my best player, Mister you know that you will not let you see UPE Ehhe AHH I cannot be first even if you should start with it, you know that you love your sleep, we are still going to give it my time in the lips like we have gone up. Ehr but not you know that I can't know the person to do it and you know you are wearing it and others when I am back. And now you are getting that hour maybe that's sleep has been taken but it's sad, it is shocked that I can do something starts tomorrow or get us start tomorrow Ehit does not have words now when will they go. They all day be shocked We can't be like a strath everything I bought I am and up to all the shoes of the exercise, when it comes to just let us start just a little of us to us. Ehr It's not that we don't know if the patient does not have a patient, this patient is a bit from the judge's projects. Am I going to be around ten minutes
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_56979857 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rock City Marathon is set up publicly "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 15 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The coordinators of the athletics competition of Rock City Marathon have announced the cost and gifts that will be awarded to the winners of those races that are expected to take place at the CCM Kirumba Stadium, Mwanza, September this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking about the gifts in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the coordinator of those races that are organized by Capital Plus International in collaboration with Mwanza province, Mathew Kasonta said the first winners of 21 kilometers race for men and women will be won by 1.5 million shillings each, 900,000 shillings for the second winners and 700,000 shillings for the third winners. On the side of the five kilometers race which will be led by the heads of Mwanza and Simiyu provinces which will also involve employees from various companies together with the disabled people, Kasonta said the winners will be awarded a gift of honor to the company while the money was given to participants with albinism. "The winners of the three kilometers race which are specifically for the elderly will be awarded 50,000 shillings for the first winners while the second and third winners are also getting cash," he said. Kasonta said that for the winners of 2 kilometers race that will involve children between 7 to 10 years will be awarded 30,000 shillings each. He said the first winners in a short race of 100 meters, 400, 800 and 1500 which are specific to the students will receive a gift of 50,000 shillings each (men and women), 30,000 shillings for the second winners while three winners have ended an amount of 20,000 shillings for each one. "The biggest one is also to thank the sponsors of these races by continuing to support them in these preparations, that is Freidkin Conservation Fund and African Wildlife Trust, NMB Bank, New Mwanza Hotel, the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), Real PR Solutions, Fabec, TIPER, Puma Energies, Clouds FM, Jembe FM, Barmedas Tv and EF OUT Door," he said. He urged more participants to continue to register so as to confirm their participation in those races which apart from raising talents of athletics in the country are also aiming to deal with poaching and advertising tourism in Lake Victoria. "To the residents of Mwanza and neighboring provinces, they can register by taking forms in several stations including the sports office in all districts of Mwanza province, all athletics offices in Geita, Simiyu, and Shinyanga, at the Nyamagana Stadium, the University of Saint Augustino Mwanza, the sports center Malala and Mwanza Hotel. "On the side of Dar es Salaam, the forms of participation is also available in the offices of Capital Plus International which is in the third floor of ATC building, in Dar es Salaam city," he concluded. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_16951465 President RT will not vie for leadership "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 25 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Former president of the Athletics Tanzania (RT) Francis John has said that he does not plan to contest again for the leadership in the elections that will be held on November 27th in Dar es Salaam city. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. John led RT for six years from 2006 to 2012 and is the former head coach of the Athletics team that participated in the 31 Olympic Games that took place in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 2016. Speaking on phone yesterday, the coach who is his fellow musician Felix Simbu has won five in the Olympics of Rio said yesterday through the phone that he will not expect him to contest because he had already led in a very big position of RT. "I don't have a plan to contest because I am already leading the top position of the athletics leadership here in the country, therefore I will pray for a position when the presidency is the highest position, signatures," said Francis. He wanted the president who will be chosen in that election to give responsibilities to its members of the executive committee if he wants to work well and to promote that game in the country. He said most of the delegates of the executive committee of RT after being elected have not been involved with the activities of that game and to sit just as they leave the president and the secretary general they put it next to him. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1997 city council
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_49795843 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Bishop has compared President Magufuli and Jesus Christ, the retired bishop of the Pentekoste Church (FPCT) Singida town, Doctor. Paul Samuel has said the issue of the government of Doctor. John Magufuli insisting on the payment of tax and tax is the implementation of the instructions of Jesus Christ, therefore the believers and the citizens in general, are required to obey and consider their responsibilities. While building his strength in his motion, he said according to the holy book of God of the Bible Warumi 13 (don't 1-14), it shows Jesus Christ's lobby for the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). Bishop Paul said in Warumi 13 has noted that they are paying taxes and tax, it is the workers of God to have their rights, a person of tax, tax, a person of tax, tax. The Doctor. Paul has said that the day before yesterday when he was surprised at the normal service which was also attended by the commander of the police force in the province, ACP Debest Daudi Maguimba. While insisting, he said that because the tax payment has been given all the blessings of the Almighty God, believers of various religious denominations should be on the forefront to obey the directive of God of paying the tax that was legal without shurti. "The government of President Magufuli in this issue of charge of tax payment and tax, is doing well that is in front of us the believers of the religion and the citizens in general, it is to pay taxes and tax at a time, so that our country can move forward. These things to avoid paying tax or tax, to be evicted, "he said. Regarding the charge of tax and tax Dk.Paul, he said that in the Bible (Luka Saint 3-12-17) says that they charge tax / tax was ordered to not get a big ze that will be against the law as ordered. He clarified, he said that the employees of TRA, in the implementation of their responsibilities, are required to charge tax and tax in accordance with the law, regulations and procedures put in place and not otherwise. "If they charge taxes or huge tax that is contrary to the law, they will have to look at the ministry, that action is not just a human with good ethics is not going on, but it will not be good for the Almighty God," he said. Bye, the police force, Doctor. Paul has said that in the book of Warumi 3 on the 14th line, has urged the police in implementing their responsibilities, accusing a person or not rapists in cases of lies. They will also be educated and the salary they are paid. "The commander of the words that were given by the servant of God Yohana, puts it in every police officer, conservatives and his salary. It means that he should not have greed for bribery and also to write to citizens a case, but he will implement his responsibilities according to his work contract, "he said. The Doctor. Paul used that opportunity to commend the police force in Singida province for his efforts to control criminal acts that can not produce peace and stability. "I commend his unique commander commander Maguimba for creating a new culture of talking to believers of religious denominations in their homes. Also for your decision to control the crime before it happens. In short, you want signs of violence, it should be dealt with early before it brings the effects. We are the church in support of this. May God bless you, "said Dk.Paul. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41172317 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. From Parliament: President Magufuli moving to Dodoma in 2020 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Today September 16, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa reading a speech to postpone the fourth meeting of the 11th parliament that lasted for a period of two weeks, has concluded the schedule of the government moving to Dodoma. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "So as to achieve the government's commitment to Dodoma, it has already been organized a schedule that will enable the government to move to Dodoma in phases, starting from September 2016 to 2020, without affecting our budget for the year 2016 / 2017 as follows" - "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 1. September 2016 - February 2017 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The prime minister and all ministers, the executive secretaries, all the deputies that will move to Dodoma in the first phase. In addition, every ministry will be required to relocate the servants of one department or two, and at the same time continuing to put the procedure of taking the servants of another department to relocate to Dodoma; "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 2. March 2017 - August 2017 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This period will give opportunities to the directors of different ministries to put in their budgets of the year 2017 / 2018, the cost of continuing to relocate its workers to come to Dodoma. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 3. September 2017 - February 2018 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In this phase, the ministries will continue with relocating the servants of the departments that are inside the ministry. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 4. March 2018 - August 2018 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. During this period, the ministries are supposed to continue to relocate its workers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 5. September 2018 - February 2020 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. During this period, the ministries are supposed to continue to relocate its workers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 6. March 2020 - June 2020 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. During this period, the office of the president led by the honorable president of the United Republic of Tanzania and the Vice President of the United Republic of Tanzania will be relocated to Dodoma. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa used this moment to advise all the ministries to establish a system of preserving the electronic records instead of relocating to various institutions from Dar es Salaam to come to Dodoma, we want Dodoma to be electronic, emphasized the Prime Minister. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_75957200 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Treatment should be given to chronic diseases. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Grace Mkojera "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 18 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Hospitals in the country are supposed to start offering medical supplies to patients with chronic diseases. That advice was given by various stakeholders including the Ocean Road Cancer Institute, the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children and stakeholders after the government passing the guidance in April this year, which involves how to serve the patients. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking in the day before yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the executive director of that institution, Doctor Julius Mwaiselage said, treatment shufaa is required to be given to patients with illnesses that were unable to hospital so as to enable a patient to live life with comfort and die in death. "Patients with chronic diseases including AIDS, diabetes, cancer and selfish diseases even those who got a motorcycle accident, they have been believing that they are people to die, believing there are no people to give birth to them, but by adopting that guide, it will help to provide education from the level of their families," he said. The coordinator of non-communicable diseases from the Ministry of Health, Doctor Sarah Maair said, his ministry does not support the importance of staying with stakeholders and to create a policy guidance that allows all health stakeholders to do what to help the patients that got up to live. He said they will start giving education to stakeholders so as to reach those who cannot arrive at the Ocean Road Hospital, to get that service where they are based. Director of the Tanzania Medical Association (TPCA), Doctor Elias Muganyizi said, there is a need for the district to start setting aside the budget to provide education to people about that treatment. The planning officer of the International Health Organization (GOP), Doctor Hussein Mtiro said, the service is not expensive, but it is an act of someone to change his negative view and to make a patient so as to increase the day to live in the world. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25276883 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Members who are not faithful are dangerous to the welfare of the party, CCM followers participating in the launch of the general elections campaign at the wilderness grounds in Dar es Salaam city last year. One of the ways that bring success in any matter so that the existence of credibility to those involved are dealing with that issue is to make it sincerely. Human beings who becomes a contribution to the community of bringing development is a must to have five major things. Those things are skills, truth, justice, legal and integrity. One with the five things he can be counted that he is a person who is complete and he can give a contribution to development in his community. A man holding those things the issue of bringing development to his private will be a dream of helping the community that goes around. In the political parties, the integrity of members is the most important thing because it is why it can be able to goalkeeper the development of the concerned party even if it can hold power to lead the government. The party members are not integrity, they can bring some misconceptions that you think that you have followers that can get a goalkeeper from your party victory, but when you get elections, you are not there. Therefore, lack of integrity in the party is dangerous because the party can think it has many followers and the real situation is not the same. It is a primary thing for members to be integrity in their party and to make sure that they don't go to any way even in secret ways. The integrity of the party, the chairperson of the Association of Parents of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Abdallah Bulembo said recently that there are members who are charishabitical in that party. Bulembo who is a member of the executive committee of CCM speaking to the students of the universities who are followers of that party in Zanzibar town, he said that there are members of the night they become CUF. That leader who led the campaigns to achieve the victory of President John Magufuli in the Tanzania general elections that took place on October 25th, 2015, said that issue is bad. Bulembo urged CCM members to be fair and not to be able to sabotage the party and deny it in his responsibilities. It is possible that Bulembo can be there because if that leader would not be able to say something that he has not heard. In fact, the issue of Duncan kuwili is not a new thing in politics, but it is bad and that hung in all community activities. Together with that Bulembo spoke to his CCM party, but that issue of lack of credibility to the party is not responsible for any party. So it is good for the people who have decided to come out to support a certain party to do so for their hearts and they should not be intimidated. That behavior should be avoided so as to bring the welfare of political parties and to ensure there is peace and stability in the country. Acts of violating the party's instructions or to be used by another party and to sabotage your party is an inappropriate thing and it must be reduced because it can endanger peace. It is good if anyone sees that he cannot be honest in his party, what he decided to join from exit and he remains without having any political party since there is no mistake. However, that afternoon is like a sheep, but the night is wearing a leopy skin is a dangerous thing and can even lose your life. Politics are on the sidelines of the high level and there are other people who can't allow if you will make actions against their party and they discovered that issue. In that kind of environment that could happen and the concerned person is found to be affected, something that can be avoided. To reach CUF in recent days, there has been words of some people who want the Civic United Front (CUF) to be postponed for claims that it is changing and endangering the peace of the country. Those claiming some of them while politicians claim that CUF has been encouraging citizens to oppose the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (SMZ) and not cooperating with it. Before the Zanzibar general elections that was sacked CUF was partnering with CCM to form the national government of the national union (SUK) that led Zanzibar for five years since 2010. However, the national government of the nation was broken after the repeat election of Zanzibar that has been boycotted by CUF and its results to put him in power the government of CCM. Apart from taking that break, the repeat election broke the right direction that was reached by CCM and CUF which brought the peace situation in the country and to cancel the tensions that existed among those parties. The right time for Zanzibar between CCM and CUF was reached after the agreement between the former president of Zanzibar and the deputy chairperson of CCM Zanzibar, Doctor Amani Abeid Karume and the secretary general of CUF, Maalim Seif Shariff Hamad. The breath of SUK and the right has sparked the political division in Zanzibar and the state of tensions to the citizens is back in afresh where some of the people of Zanzibar get involved in providing community services like selling products. In the current situation, the thoughts of wanting to cancel CUF is not a solution to the problems that are in Zanzibar. In any way even when the political parties will decide to reach CUF it does not mean that the situation will make Zanzibar be safe. There is no doubt that CUF followers if their party will be wanted to join the ruling CCM party. However, of course, those followers can support another party or they created a new party and the situation continues as usual and they increase the opposition to the ruling party. In that view, it is good for all those with ideas of wanting CUF to be searched for them to look for those ideas because they do not have any contribution in removing the political division that is in Zanzibar. If there is a true commitment is good for the politicians of Zanzibar to meditate and find alternative ways to end the political crisis in Zanzibar. The true democracy that can bring peace and stability in the country is to ensure that everything is done by considering the basis of justice. It is a must that every event in the country should be done in the legitimacy without having injustice to some people or to provide biased in some people. In other words the country is supposed to have a true democracy where every citizen will get their right without any conditions. The writer is a senior journalist and political commentator and communities. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_79183507 They refuse to Pajero because of bicycle! Jul 17, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Emmanuel Arnold Okwi, right now is alleged to be seen in the streets of Kampala, Uganda, with the Etoile du Sahel club asking him to return to the team according to his contract. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This is the second month now Okwi lost his home. Story? She is paid his salary and his club. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Just four years ago, Mbwana Samatta was on the streets of Mbagala, returning to play for Simba club on claims that it has not bought a car as they have agreed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Today, Samatta is one of the richest players in Tanzania, dancing out of Tanzania at TP Mazembe Club. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I could have made many examples but that only will happen to today. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The biggest problem that faces many East African players compared to the West and North Africa counterparts, how they are secret their success. The way they see a big picture ahead of them. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Samatta wanted to stop completely playing football because of Toyota Correctional which at the time that value did not continue even eight million shillings. Today, he is making the money for a bonus of the only international match. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But, four years ago, Samatta was ready to play a friendly match in Mbagala Kibangulile where he was paid 20,000 shillings for a match than playing for Simba. Simba that was later brought to TP Mazembe! "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When a player gets a profit when he comes at home only in December for a period of two months while his team continues with the competition? This is something that some of us will win completely. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Unfortunately, the world has become a very small part. Some say it is similar to the village. The meaning of this is that these stories of absenteeism for Okwi are traveling across the world. There is no agent or a team that is ready to register players who do not have discipline. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In Europe to our colleagues, the discipline that is considered than all is the one to participate in exercise and follow the instructions of the teachers. Even if a player has a bad character, if he is doing well, he can be tolerated. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A big problem with us discipline is being viewed in very small things. You will find the leader to hate a player because you do not meet if they meet. Or a person is said badly because he is crossing the ears. A lot of things. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The mistakes like Okwi will come to them later. This is a mistake that was given to the Tanzanian soccer system and thinks he can do even in Europe. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While Simba, Okwi has never been able to return to Tanzania every time he was given a break. At their home, he was not receiving calls from leaders except speaking to the people that he wants. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Fortunately, she was caught with Simba. I don't think this can be tolerated in Tunisia where discipline issues are close to the European standards. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Our players have? Okwi puts this person who came to Tanzania for the first time while wearing a bowl today he is doing with the brilliance of the chest Etoile du Sahel that has passed a lot of good players and famous as Kader Keita of Ivory Coast. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. What happened to the attern of deciding to stop completely the ball because he has not been bought for Correctional? Now he can buy even Range Rover wanting and not to feel if his account has reduced something? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Simba and Etoile du Sahel is not the end of life. These are ways of passing before someone has arrived in Liverpool and Arsenal and then went to Real Madrid and Barcelona. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The nanny of our players is surprising. Okwi has never participated in any major competitions through his national team. He is playing in the African Cup of Africa. She is playing the World Cup. He has never been the best scorer of the Tanzania Premier League. Where is the supportive of where? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yaya Toure, who is paid almost 400 million Tanzanian shillings every week in England, is currently in training with his team. Okwi is going to do exercises with Etoile. Does it mean that the players who are continuing with exercises there are no problem if they have? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Do a player like this starting to be paid at least 100 million shillings for the month it will get? Isn't he requesting even to be taken to the training? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He lacks the opportunity to get more success by checking the current salary. He refuses to Pajero for bicycle. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_90293862 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While Wema claimed to have got a husband, Diamond can emerge and say that even even stay away from the wife "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. And Shakoor Jongo from his heart? While Both Wema Sepetu is surprised to feel that he has got a husband who is a good father, Bond Abdul "Diamond Platnumz" has opened up that he never thought to get married, Friday has to report. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Diamond's statement comes several weeks after Wema appeared in a wedding ring and then confessed to be threatened by the "insane" that the Bongo Fleva artist who has returned from the United States where he won the award for the best artist in East Africa that went to the name African Muzik Magazine (AFRIMMA) 2014. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The fear of marrying speaking with this newspaper in a special interview, Diamond said that he is worried to get married on claims that doing so he can fall musically something that he does not want to stay in his life. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yet! The guy, who nowadays comes in Dangote (the name of Nigeria's rich, Dangote) was angry that in the past he had the idea of marrying but accusing his fellow musicians who died at the end of the day, their injuries are reduced and others lost completely on the music map. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "You know you can see if I talk about jokes but it is the truth. "There are many musicians who were at peak (top) but when they gave only" Kiki "their fell suddenly in music and others have lost completely. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "If you follow keenly, there are many stars in the world who have gone too much but they don't have. Even here are some active examples. I think their fear is to see that they are doing so they will come out of music, "said Diamond. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Is it really engaged in Wema? When he was asked if it is true he has engaged her engagement ring, Wema, that artist was not ready to clarify on the criterion that the ring is beauty as another beauty for a woman. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Outside of a box after hearing the stand of Diamond, this newspaper added and came out of a box where it spoke to some of the artists who were married to the ones that explained serious issues. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The secret comes in their conversation with a condition of dissent in the newspaper, the artists claimed that Diamond is worried about losing Knowledge of the beauties who are his fans who believe that they can get married to him that is why they surrounded them and asked the phone number every time he is going. A series of places "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It was explained that because those people tend to be above that is why he was reported from the series of women stars who contributes to his name to continue being high. It was claimed that while he is looking for a way to destroyed music allegedly from romantic with the beauties who had small names like Rehema Fabian who got fame through the Miss Swahili competition. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It was said that after that he allegedly had a series of women stars as actors Jacqueline Wolper Massawe and Aunt Ezekiel Grayson and Jokate Mwegelo. Later, the guy was alleged to jump by girls who did not have Knowledge, therefore he gave him within a short time as I am and Natasha. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Later Diamond was killed by Wema until he reached the point of getting an engagement ring in the year 2012 inside the New Life Hall located in Masaki, Dar es Salaam city. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The records show that shortly after he was engaged in the engagement ring, where Diamond landed on the presenter of Radio E-FM, Penniel Mungilwa, "Penny." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Diamond is not permanent and Penny on claims that the beauty was not with Kiki as it was for Wema whose name has never happened since he was wearing Kraini of Miss Tanzania 2006 / 07. It was said that even a student is reduced to Penny under the return of Wema who is said to be telling them. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Have they married, have they gone down? Some of the stars who were married include Mohamed Ahmed "Z-Anto," Nurdin Bilal "Shetta," believe the highway, Lawrence Marima "Marlaw," Amani Temba "Honorable Temba" and others. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41083370 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yono wants Manji to leave Quality Plaza "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Ikunda Erick "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 04 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Quality Group Limited company that is owned by the chairman of Yanga Club, Yusuph Manji has been removed from strength by the order of the Supreme Court of Land, at the building that was planned to Quality Plaza after failing to pay a debt of 13 billion shillings, which is claimed by the owner of the building, which is the Pension Fund of PSPF. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They implemented the work yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, the brokerage company of the Court of Yono that were given permission from the fund to remove those debtors after losing the case, following the judgment of the Supreme Court that was released on November 24th, this year, they gave the agencies outside after being given 24 hours to remove voluntary. The executive director of the Company of Yono, Scholastika Kevela who are the implementation of that work, he said, gave a notice of 24 hours they wrote the day before yesterday in that office urging them to leave them before the legal order of the court has not been completed by today morning. "Quality Group and four colleagues are required to leave and we today (yesterday) we have come to remove them and that's why they feel their things and leave, are reported 601 million dollars equivalent to 13 billion shillings, which every time he was told when he has been running for more than 10 years now," said Kevela. He said the PSPF Fund, unaiden the Quality Group Company, those funds are planning, but every time it is required to pay has been in court and ran to court to put a petition to pay for him to continue staying freely and that the Supreme Court decision made on November 24, has urged him to leave within 24 hours and to pay the debt he owes. "We came to have written the announcement of the verdict to ask him to leave himself in the building but he had to have his people and we met our people to protect and now he has started offering his property and until tomorrow he should be given him to him," said Kevela. He said together with giving his things inside that building, he has been given a period of 14 days legal, he has given that debt and if he will be unable to pay his property, it will be arrested and sold so as to get money to pay the debt he is claimed by PSPF. Other companies that were ordered to leave inside that building is Gaming Management Ltd, Q-cosult Ltd, International Transit Investment Limited company. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_79611253 And it cannot be a school not you know that. Mym ohh I hear from children even if it is one child, you are living together We are used to us there is no problem, no problem. No one is nowhere near here. Ehyou will give the bride kangemi we shall be kangemi You are still with us as we talked to me. AHH: We knew that we cannot butter and ye The same thing I know, I had forgotten about what they had lost, they had been lost to you, you know if you get there, you see there's no problem. When you know you're doing with them today, you know that nobody will follow him at home
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_36870260 Another one. Which you can talk while doing the television Those of the players We are not hard the director manson wondered why he came with the equipment that he has since and of Course Like If running, there must be a look at a moment when a player is walking to the start, you are supposed to help, especially when they came to them, the equipment gave him in his car, he claims that he gave him in his car, the players who were unable to get a good results but Mercy came and therefore the equipment helped me so much to make a team that was very good. In fact, people who have gone through his hands are taught at the coach Benefited from it because it is in people He actually gets the principal but he told the coach you must use your mind Nothing can be interpreted from the book Sometimes use your mind to get a victory or your team does not make me feel good what they were doing for the teachers. We have lost a person who was a very good pillar in soccer watching since the two thousand and three years when the assistant coach of the youth team helped Abdallah king Even the players who he has made. Especially when these have come up, we don't have a fever to stand for him because of this conditions, the victory is due to him because some time he was telling a player is telling him he is not doing it in truth. The players themselves witnesses the way he has helped to make a lot of football so that we can be able to reach here where it is. You can talk. At the end of five, I'm talking about now while we use our value, filling it telling the Tanzanians and in order for us. That will be a continuation of that the nation will be some of the stakeholders who will be watching but you know many times You are our host ... the scheme is now being Ahmad Ahmad is a very young man or he saw him yesterday in the house The coach I tell you watching the players and the late competition, he also offers his money savings that he got there he took it for the same way the team had players of soccer and men and those with different children. Onde chonde, a long time old man of soccer stakeholders have heard a check of this center is a uru To get away from the future players being left, the players who are not present in a squad in academia will go to where his results shall produce. Rape people are not productive but these players are being buried and they were described in the future This station will be a great help to the best soccer stakeholders, Hemed that they do everything that should be able to look for the station to continue because a young man is supposed to be able to develop it wherever Masha was taking the phone and asked him how they are doing it so that he is going to develop it. Just think again, it's very grateful for your message here in the studio you know this time is this post, who's grateful for you. And where the controversy in the water was speaking briefly including coach, ester Marsh who passed away in front of the rights and his body at nine o'clock in the afternoon will have a journey to return to Mwanza town ready for a funeral that he is within two days in the coming days when he is in Kigoma Diamond more information to be informed in the press here. I return again that we have sponsors then later we will be continuing with it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_28174077 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Coach Mbao has encouraged me despite the defeat "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Alexander Sanga, Mwanza "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It has been published: 04 September 2016, the head of Mbao FC, Etienne Ndairaghan has congratulated his team for playing well despite a 4-1 defeat from Mbeya City in the premier league game at the CCM Kirumba Stadium. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that his team despite losing but it played well. "Mbeya City is a good team I congratulate them, also without forgetting my youth have come out in their ability, we are grateful for the same time. Every match we learn something because my youth are the first season in the premier league," said Ndairfax. Ndairfax said another problem of losing that match is due to his team changing the squad regularly. Ndairaghan has confirmed the negligence of his defenders as a reason for losing the match. That coach said that the fans should run out of the league and to do well. The head coach of Mbeya City, Kinnah Phiri has congratulated his team for that big victory and he has said they will continue to perform well in the premier league by winning all the remaining matches. Explaining about Mbao FC team, Phiri said it is a good team that is fighting so they should continue to fight. Phiri said that the defeat they received by Mbao is a sign that the team is required to rise and be able to get points. The goals of Mbeya City were scored by Raphael Daud in the 20th minute and 89, Omary Ramadhan in the 55th minute with Ramadhan Chombo in the 75 minute while Mbao goal was scored by Emmanuel Liba in the 35th minute. Mbeya City has been completed by the time the leadership of that league after the veteran players of Yanga, Simba and Azam FC not to bed at the pitch at the end of the week after having many players in the national team that played on Saturday and Nigeria and scored 1-0. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_95317151 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In Dar es Salaam, Dar es Salaam, there are many challenges that cancer patients are meeting them especially for women who have breast cancer. Those challenges have caused those patients to cut up and continue with treatment and decided to cut the dose and return to their homes. That situation happens after getting tired to struggle to find money to afford the cost of drugs while talking to stigmatization while being away by coming to the Ocean Road Hospital (ORCI) which covers treatment and investigation of the disease. A big challenge that many victims are asking to be assisted is together with the availability of medicine in the type of Chemotherapy which is given as treatment in that hospital. Speaking recently during the launch of the Hope of the Woman, one of those patients, Biwitnesses Shaiza, says they are usually told that those drugs are free but when they ask them often they are told that they are forced to buy in foreign shops where they are sold expensive. "I have paid that dose in the first round with a lot of problems with a cost of 200,000 shillings after being told that the drugs are not found in the hospital, here I didn't know the second and third dose I will get it," says Shaiza. He explains that he went to Tanga province to follow the service in Dar es Salaam city after his brother helped him to afford the cost of distance since it was difficult to serve him while there. Another patient Mwajuma Mohamed, says the community has not been educated enough about that disease and many women are not going to the hospital for believing that they can undergo surgery and died. He claims that the current community in some areas and especially rural areas do not believe that the breast cancer patient can undergo surgery and saw it. He explains that even when he discovered that he had that disease in the year 2013, he got tired of telling her brothers that he believes that they will not accept the surgery to remove the breasts. "I was afraid to tell them because there are others who are known to have surgery to be bad and there are those who believe that even radiation has effects. "But after a long time I saw the swelling that was going to grow, I made a decision to go to the hospital and they advised them to cut off, I saw the same because there are those who have refused to appeal and their condition is bad, therefore I involved brothers and agreed to help me," he says. Mwajuma says there are still faith in witchcraft about that disease and there are people who believe that infected with AIDS, therefore they will build cancer victims as they feel they can be infected. And the Director of Tanzanian Cancer support and Hope Faundation (TCS-Hope), Halima Kasungu, says many patients have returned to their villages after failing to afford the cost of buying those drugs for all the doses and other problems that they get there. "The Chemo drug is very expensive for low-income earners fail to afford. While another one is sold 300,000 shillings, those patients who came to follow the services are given up, they have rejected a dose and decided to return to where they came from, "says Kasungu. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17280018 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: Wed, APR 26th, 2017 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Why Nape is the heroes. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tags "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Everyone gets his experience. This is the phrase of Swahili which Swahili who are lucky to be with them in our Swahili language. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This means that if you get good and you will get good and if you get wrong, then don't expect the best but you will get that bad. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That is how the former minister of information whose minister was revoked in March this year by President John Magufuli. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Personally I am not surprised to Nape though the other people seemed like a hero and he seems like a person who deserves sympathy, but to me it's not a hero and I don't look at him even a bit because everyone gets his experience and he gets him. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Since his appointment will be decided, Nape seems like a person who has a sense of ideas and you can see so as you follow social media especially on Twitter. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He seems to put several posts showing how he was fighting for his party and some of the problems of the company that he saw, which didn't seem to be resolved, it's like a certain style of giving a stone to anyone who is in the face, then he will give the voice. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Why to me Nape is not a hero "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He can be a hero of his soul or in his position but not because of Tanzania, I am saying this because since the beginning of the drug scandal, after being mentioned in the first phase of the list of retailers and users of the year when I saw the war of two bulls that later came to be directed at the radio station and television station of Clouds. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It's a war that got people seemed like the umbrella of justice, but there were personal issues, indeed I am asking for Nape the case he said, "brand" of people especially artists unable when he himself is the suspect of dirty "brand" of people; he is back to the statement of former Prime Minister Edward Lowassa about people going round with the party's money to Comedian, that alone is enough to see him as a hero. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Why don't you wait for Nape "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Who is among us who loves to see a person is paid a salary doesn't go with the work he had done? We all would like justice and for justice, everyone is supposed to get according to the work he had done. If so, do we have the reason to have mercy on Nape? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Nape this man who had a Buddhist statements when they come to parliament "live," this man who took the news bill, and with pride, Nape this one who had a pride against the people who had complained about his statement that they will win even with a goal of hand again saying publicly unless any fear, this is what we have to use? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This is what should we go to the hero? Now someone stood in the water and then tried to kill him and we will call him a hero because he was fighting for him when he defended his soul before being found, followed with him and he is pity for him? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The problem of Tanzania, we have been great, and that's all the years we have been bridges of politicians, while our economic situation continues to be bad, the loyalty is a very bad disease. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Many politicians especially those who do not have the positions of leadership forget and see if those positions are permanent and they have written their names and they forget that until you get there, there are levels they go on top there's no place to go again, therefore, I advise them to respect the citizens regardless of that you have. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Who once thought if Lowassa and Sumaye can complain about soldiers as he had complained to the former secretary general of the Party of Democracy and Development (Chadema), Doctor. Wilbrod Slaa? Power is not permanent. "But I'm not Going to do it. "IT's "IT's "IT's
query1465 public enterprise
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_57842347 The sun will do a way you will listen to a blessing when he is talking about it. According to the rules of the premier league, every club is required to present the names of players between the ten and seven to thirty years that lack Toto and stand United is supposed to pay five hundred thousand shillings for every player according to the number of players that will be presented first from right now. In sixty-fourth door It is three parties to fail to submit to be registered in that period which is the largest than all they come from the premier league is the team, I told him by phone from Tanga. Telling everything from Yanga And the club Toto African from the beginning For these clubs we are unable to submit donors within the scheduled time And if they will pass from today not enough, I see if it has been instructions You should pay a hundred thousand shillings for every player presenting the tribe during this time At the same time, the coach of the national team of Tanzania Mainland stars charles Boniface Mkwasa has mentioned twenty players and two who will be traveling with the team on Sunday twenty-third to set up a camp in Turkey In the awards Joshua two are supposed to report to the camp on Sunday at eleven o'clock at the Tansoma hotel so as to complete the other procedures and the trip. It will be on Sunday in that trip the teachers thought and a goalkeeper Ally Mustafa walks back From Yanga is Azam FC in Azam. Said Mohamed from Mtibwa, the stars' squad is going to camp in Turkey for a period of two weeks to prepare for the qualifying game to play in the African Cup finals of two thousand and seven thousand in Gabon against Nigeria on September five in the city. The institution is expecting to play the second game to qualify for the AFCON against Nigeria after the previous one against Egypt being scored three goals away away. Cheche Sima is a new star
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58376407 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Korea has changed China's Cultural Market Mar 21, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Last week, my Korean friends were encouraged to visit them as part of the Shanghai city called North Korea in Guprices in Shanghai. This area has been killed in North Korea because a large percentage of Christians in Shanghai live in this place, and there are many Korean businesses. In revolving in the streets of Tatown, it was announced by the majority of the Chinese who came out for a variety of luxury, including food, drinks, and various tourist attraction sites. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Jump to what I saw is that North Korea's culture sell China. The long queues in food restaurants, big shops and the apparent lack of Chinese people wanting to take a photo next to the statue of popular Caribbean artists is enough evidence. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When I returned home, I got the desire to know more about this South Korean culture influence. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A small study showed that, not only China, the whole Asian continent in recent years has been created by a wave of art and culture from Korea: I'm talking to acting television (popular as K-dramas), film, music (famous as K-pop) food, clothing and fashion. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This is Asia from China to Hong Kong and Taiwan. Japan, India to Turkey Meanwhile, South Asian countries including Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines, Singapore, Cambodia, Thailand - turn on television or radio and is sure that you will meet television literature. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is also an act of drama that is also on the spotlight of other Korean culture sections that now it has been made to be a fashion to eat Kikorea which famous actors seem to be in literature, wear like them, to follow her hair and cosmetics. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I have been told in Thailand, in their Bangkong city, cosy shops have been filled with beauty and beauty services, where in the slogan, they were promised to be officiated by the traditional sandals. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The impact was also taken into computer Games. It is a success not that cultural and art is now testing the desire of tourists to visit the country. I have heard that Kikorea has also been made a fashion for now. While Mandarin (Chinese) is spreading and spread of economic and business reasons, Kikorea is known for cultural and art. It's like in my home, young people are learning to go hand in hand with the progress of Europe. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The wave of spread and growing influence of art and cultural practices did not start soon. In 2001, Chinese media participated in the wave of "Hallyu" (or Hallyu-wood). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3397 prostitution whoredom
query1999 municipal
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45087706 The list of coalition issues will be included II Mar 13, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On the qualifications of being elected as a presidential candidate or parliament (article 79 and. 125), for now, the parties that are interested - are not true to select a candidate. Yet some who were chosen to contest would not be selected as voters would know. Propogens of parties and fans are the ruling. As a result, the nation is getting bad leaders and a weak government. I suggest that there should be a tool to filter and make up the qualifications of candidates presented by the parties. It should be a authority to refuse and ordering parties to do other or another. The Electoral Commission has given that authority. In implementing this responsibility, the commission will be led by the taboo of leadership listed in this constitution. There are other countries with the same approach to filter. Without having such a tool, those qualifications will remain in papers and things will continue as usual we were used to and the nation will continue to get bad leaders. Parliament suing President "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is my opinion that the proposed amount of 75 percent of the parliamentary votes for the purpose of creating an investigation committee and to remove the president is very high. Why more than 50 percent was suspended for the form of the committee and 66 percent (two-thirds) stopped him for more than that level is "competing." Also, the constitution should talk to the president or the leader who had been removed from power that you deserve to be paid the pension benefits - as it is for other public servants who are fired. The process of changing the constitution "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For this we are led by the experience we have already received and the weight of the constitution passed by the citizens. The ability to change the constitution should not be easy like this proposed, which is being used now. This process has enabled the ruling party to use the numbers of its members of parliament to cancel the rights of private citizens to vie for the presidency or parliamentary without being appointed by the political party. Let me allow this process of changing the constitution continue. I recommend first, two-thirds of the members of parliament from Tanganyika and two-thirds from Zanzibar will be needed as it is now and secondly; two-thirds of the opposition members - these are representing the citizens who choose, third; if the intended changes are big article 119 recommended and supported. The creation of the Parliament of the Republic article 113 needs a comprehensive analysis, not to implement it. I see the elections in his region will be very high even to do the work of candidates to make a campaign to be hard and expensive. There are also questions of asking: The party's election manifesto or the candidate will have such policies on defense and security issues, foreign affairs and other things like that to convince the voters to vote on the possibility of the country's leaders to choose the members of parliament of the United Republic as it is taking place at the parliament of the East African Community. But the president is elected by the citizens. I suggest it. The role of the election director's role in the role of the election director (article 196; -3) - that "the election director of the Electoral Commission will implement its obligations by assisted by executives who are public servants...." Director does not be made to use public servants as it is now. There is evidence that shows that the workers are serving the bloggers - the commission on one side and his employer on the second side who wants his demands are met and misleading. I suggest that it would be able to employ or select its staff who will be responsible for him. The revenue sources of the coalition government in the revenue sources of the coalition government (article 231) first; this proposal, in my opinion, will give birth to a weak government and put the United Republic as a shadow. It is the government which has no authority to charge taxes to its citizens so that it can serve as required, we want the government of a powerful coalition. This strength is together with the ability to get enough revenue to run the coalition government. Those income contributes to every citizen with the ability to pay taxes and every institution paid taxes in accordance with the law. On the current procedure, citizens pay taxes that runs the union activities and activities of Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2933 increase become greater price monetary value
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_78507331 The government will ban plastic packaging, Jan 12, 2017 by Gideon Shoo. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Drugs is a topic that has been prevalent in the media for a long time. The debate about the problem of drug abuse has been emerging and long for decades now. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They have taken different research about the effects of drug abuse. Research is aiming at looking at the loopholes used to bring in the country, the intensity of drug trafficking, the use of torture and manufacturer in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, despite a lot of research and recommendations of different researchers on the steps of taking so as to overcome the problem of the use of torture in the country, we are still seeing how the problem progresses. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is the fact that the torture causes the biggest problem of a very dangerous disease known as shame. Shame is a very dangerous disease which makes a patient be dependent on those drugs and he will remove them in a sensible group. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Someone who is ashamed of thinking like another normal person and lives in his own world that he is removing them in a strong group of work in the community. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But while we are looking for ways to deal with the importation of torture in the country, it is important we look at here in the country because there is a group of people who are affected by a shame that is derived from what we want to call the torture. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is very true that the torture of the family of bbles and heroos is a big business that is being hit all over the world. In addition, the torture is a very big business that puts billions in billions of money. Those who sponsor those businesses are the greatest rich people with the ability to buy anything including their freedom. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But when we are very close to screaming about the torture from outside the country, there is a problem that doesn't get the eyes as required and discussed with it is that I said above the shame that comes from alcohol. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I have ever wrote last year that in my village that I live in Wari Sinde, Machame North, there is a disease that is called a section. This is the disease that comes from the shame of alcohol. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The shame of alcohol has been a big problem in our community. This is not a secret issue because leaders knew that and instead of looking at and find the medicine they do as if there is no problem. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The statistics of the researchers say that there are more than 300,000 shillings. However, those statistics do not think that they have involved with alcohol, the problem that has now spread across the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But alcohol consumption has increased from 35 to 45 percent taking place without following the rules, regulations and procedures. Each one with salt or a shop of salt and oil selling hot alcohol. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. As a result of the sale of random alcohol, all the oro are being sold to be bars because of the ease of drinking alcohol every time and therefore, to do with its excessive drinking and the procedure that is understood. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Government is supposed to take quick action to deal with this problem by checking the issue of packaging. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Currently, there are various alcohol sold at the packaging of plastic equipment for the capacity of 100 to 500. The packaging, this is easy to view them and therefore you can find one person when when the packaging that will enable them to carry up to 1000 shillings which is one liter of alcohol. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Both are not tweeting like Beer. These alcohol have its own approach to use. Our people who use the alcohol are not following the procedure and they are sure they are drinking alcohol as they stole, a bedroom, football and others. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The act of drinking alcohol such as alcohol is very dangerous and can cause it not only shame but even deaths. But this is something that at some point the government can contribute to its speed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government is responsible for review the permission that gave the packaging of plasma as one of the steps to reduce the ease of recovery and alcohol. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Furthermore, that availability easily has made even non-allowed groups to get them easily. Right now there is alcohol with a taste of milk, the flavor of nanasi and other fruits and that makes them even the school children to get them and use it. This is a great danger. The nation is dying as we see. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Removing plastic packaging will help significantly reduce the availability of severe alcohol. Moreover, that step will help a lot in reducing pollution of the environment that is currently rampant from the city to the villages. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1993 gasoline
query2447 cultural heritage
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_85928945 AHH: This is not what I told me later that he should tell me that the project is suffering so that I can do it. Mym then tell me popo Mister mi It does not have a project, we are still looking for even yet we have to look for Mister AHH now we will know how to insult Mister AHH went to the truth again. Ohh, the same as I was going to see where they were yesterday. And if you want a picture to say that you don't know what you are on the floor. Ohh Mary woi ehhe and why is it easier for you to make a picture that he went to as I haven't seen it and then you were holding it or saw it. Aai not I was k _ c _ s _ e I was k _ c _ P _ e yesterday that I am not about you get the things you do. It's not you know and the one who is proud of it is the only easy one. To believe the journey to hold the technical weather reminded me what we want to do, I went to hold a few hours tomorrow. He is shut down
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_76871713 The conclusion that the international price of gold in the world market has dropped by nine percent a point being the largest to collapsed. In the past two years The price of gold has dropped from one hundred thousand dollars and ninety minutes of America From the end of last month to one hundred and five thousand dollars. One of them did not need to start the collapse of the china economy Meanwhile, fuel prices in the global market are also down for nearly three million dollars. That is from the dollar One hundred and third to zero degree centres Up to a hundred million dollars Saba five You are the reports.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_26301652 AHH is not his mym And then I just want to wait and see @ lt; hes tgt; another vehicle is there before you see me the number will be in the continent, if it is okay, he didn't tell me if it can get that if the engines are quick to see Maoists know the eyes of one person ran away. I'll be a car here outside. Mym AHH is not the whole bus I'm with it and then you will make you make us to meet you. Ehhe then He added that I want such a car you can get out of the small and I do not know nothing they don't know if you don't know how you don't have. Ehhe mym Let me know I finished it, I don't know I am not doing it, I will not make me back here to meet him so that I'm not so happy but there is something I am doing this hour a knife, "Dennis do not know I'll have done something I will do at this time. Because you are so far, I will come. Ehorehhe ehr Mym
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_38457656 Ehit now is not to have. SA is not telling us to put them on the top of the commander. I don't know he told me that when I am going to go to Town, let me go through you, I am going to get the tea but now I saw that the third time will have to take it up to him so that you tell you that you will tolerate them here without being paid, I told me even I want a place I'll be going to go. Mym mym Ehn well let's go Ehorsa will be in line with you just going to stay or help him help Ehorehhe is not a must from the Next Week. When you will enter the work there is a penalty department to tell me I had got the condition. Mym ehhe is not present, if the internet will pay mentor AHH recommendation still say it is not there. To pay it, it is not a must for people to be taken to prosecutors. You know that I do not vote, I don't think this Job, but now the Fat looks at the same time? If you will also be reached, he is expecting that graduation is not the Next year, Bana to do things on Feb you will get that it's not that you will make it not then you will tell you that you will not tell you that you will be able to make the fence that they will ask them to be able to work only. In January early, when my guy is not far, I will have to have like him in problem so that you will tell you that just you don't know? The salary I have written up primarily in January Mym Mym or for who extent to tell me I'm going through there almost every day to tell me when I came back to me, but however, he told me that I don't know if I didn't tolerate it, you know now it is a gelosi he sees a person to sit there as you are wondering what I ask. If you tell you that you will tolerate them later.
query3934 smell odor
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53007445 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Breeders denied beating the farmer. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our writer, Chalinze "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 11 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The breeders of Kimange village, Chalinze county, Bagamoyo district, have denied beating the farmer, Ally Muya, then sprang the gobole. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While speaking to journalists, the breeders said that the incident is being led by some people so that the breeders do not like violence, something that is not true. The breeder Athuman Kideshi said that what happened is the two cows to enter the farm of the elderly and they were trying to remove those cows so that they can't make the destruction on the farm. "It is true that two cows took to the farm to the elderly Muya, unfortunately we were trying to release them and then they got into conflicts, but we did not stick with his gun or beating him," said Kideshi. Habonji, said that for several years, they have been living well with the farmers and even coming from the problem they complete, but this year the produce has been bad, a step that has caused conflicts between them to farmers, while the poor harvest resulted from the shortage of rain. "We are asking for them that it is good to have been built on the areas between farmers and breeders so as to eliminate this conflicts which has been coming up regularly so that every side of its part, this I think it will be medicine than it is now," said diarrhea. The chairperson of Kimange Village, Ayubu dirty said that the issue of breeders has been difficult especially from the village area to be small and there is no place to block livestock. Dirty said that in order to deal with that challenge, they have formed a committee of farmers and breeders which for breeders who use livestock in farms have been fined. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_29318525 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Minister congratulates coming back to the taken rary "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Alexander Sanga, Mwanza "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 07 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Minister of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, William Lukuvi has congratulated the lands office of the Lake Region by bringing back the grounds of Hermant Patel that were illegal against the law of land and housing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking during his one day tour in the province yesterday, Lukuvi said the government is stable in stopping land and housing. "I AM in the Lake Zone by deleting 15 of the land to the owner Hermant Patel. Patel got copyright 15 of these contrary to the law after the PCCB study, you will be able to cancel 15 documents and Patel's land has been able to return to the government, "he said. Lukuvi said that Patel's land that was in Busega district in Simiyu province which had 13 hectares, the government has returned to Busega District Council, will be used for production activities. He asked the PCCB to make sure he is following the issue of Patel and sent him to court. He said people like Patel are required to surrender to him early before the bringing out them. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1443 club association match competition
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58526384 Directors of public organizations in the country have been requested to look at the secretaries in the context of various meetings that will help to build capacity in the activities of every day, that advice has been given by the chairman of the executive secretaries of the electricity organization in the country, TANESCO, Rukia Mtingwa, during the sports bonanza that took place in Tanga province and coordinated by the organization of TANESCO information more than Mandela money. In a difficult time to look for the electricity organization in TANESCO, mistavi during the sports bonanza took place in Tanga province and coordinated by the organization. Let's see a lot of organizations but ready to love you stretching at home when I closed down but the leadership of TANESCO has come to prove that the person is butter. You know this card. Therefore, in Total, other news organizations have been retweeted if not we have access to the attack and give them an opportunity like six in the meantime for our leaders Indeed. If that in the game is not normal for human beings but also as a organization. TANESCO is the first chapter for us at the beginning that we have already done so we will? Sports In those games secretaries From Southern Highlands are the ones that lead in different games including football. Football started to hashtag together with the karata game I would have had millions as a table
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_50491390 I should continue giving condolences to the citizens of Kagera province and the Tanzanians in general With this earthquake that hit the lake regions, honorable president was supposed to be on the way Zambia Since activities of swearing in honorable president of Zambia The minimum who has completed it is to show that the government has taken me this issue And a great opportunity if your thing is good for the lake, then we as members of parliament and we are mixed at though our post is today's session. At least it should be a place to sue those colleagues of Kagera province especially in Bukoba Municipality as part of their condolences to the government's efforts. Seems the government have yet to organize ourselves And the government earlier on foreign stakeholders are in the factory to continue contributing a good thing but the government has not told us the challenges they face our young children, victims and injuries a matter when he was killed. It should be to join us with great honor I request to give my condolences Bahati, for all the citizens, I thought like my colleague's wife This is the instrument of the citizens And we were supposed to show all the respect to the citizens, we are on the whole day of today, we should discuss and focus towards the government is what to do when we see the prime minister is gone there but we haven't seen a wealthy and we expected the prime minister of mangoes and tents and all the citizens being given quick donations there is no commitment in the country to tell the citizens that what their government has failed to do the ten and if we cannot say it is not a commitment here in parliament. You are talking to dumba after speaking to the press, I see it is not the same for me to join up with the presenter, Honorable aunt. To contribute to our today's allowance For the sake of the victims of this incident, you made a sense of life has made me even the situation of our colleagues in Kagera province and neighboring provinces. But they don't want some people to take this area as an area of wanting to get vibrant in politics How he was touched by humans, we have our own words and give us the left hand then the right hand, you want to say that as a nation we thank God that the whites are saying to change our It could be worse but still a god and you have to block him again. In the disaster, people want comfort I have arrived at the girls' school, a government is still continuing with an assessment when three teachers have collapsed. I have gone to the dormitory even mi has a crack and also there is no house in Bukoba, one of the ten houses have a crack, I have gone through that as a nation we become one as a nation we are looking for international aid also to help the Honorable aunt, I request that not to be supported so that I am questioning the parliament and I request to give a point to the winners of the gay involved. The argument has been supported honorable members of parliament now I questioned the people who agree with the argument to say. They don't agree with that argument not to say not. Those Who said that they have won by thus the allowance of today's honorable members will contribute to Twitter. Hes Twitter; the disaster of our brothers in Bukoba Honorable Lukuvi, this thing I see great and the government will be taken because this night has done the honorable prime minister not to go here today in the parliament to remain a specialist in hundreds. You have made the honorable president not to go to the sin not to stand up when it started there. If you look at the two condolences you can find that this thing as a government we have done for a month Today we cannot be first to build houses for the victims, we need expertise to be intimidated that even where they are built. Then if they are putting them today tomorrow we can take the other so there are a lot of things that are happening under the way, Honorable Simbachawene was able to bring up all the mattresses that the government is thinking and will not be able. I request the honorable speaker honorable members of parliament and Tanzanians to believe that the government should think It has a huge shortage. In a way that has been caring for its people and this issue will go well and continue to cooperate and pray for the injured people who went ahead of the right to pray to the Almighty God.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_28322226 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The flexibility we have to do in Brazil? Jul 09, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The World Cup will end on July 13, Brazil. Historically it is a tournament that has many celebrations and excitement of here and there. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Every time it comes after four years lovers of soccer around the world always have their eyes and ears have been following the biggest soccer competitions in the world where it takes place. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The tournament this year has had challenges here and there. Many have been witnessed and even what was not expected. For example, we have witnessed players with great names unable to do the same as many expected, while those who do not have names arising from doing great things contrary to the expectations. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For African teams we have witnessed the folks, that is conflicts and clashes with other players of those teams being chased away from the camp even before their teams were released in that tournament. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But Algeria's team have been able to put history by being the first team from Africa to get a big number of goals when it managed to score South Korea by a total of 4-2 goals in the group stages. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Meanwhile, there are some of the coaches who decided to leave the level due to their teams doing badly. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They may also know that after presenting their reports, there is nothing they will continue over their hands, after getting the results contrary to their promises. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the quarter-finals to the semi-finals, there are several events that have emerged as a result of getting injured by the striker of Brazil, Neymar, who certainly gave Brazil soccer fans due to how they depend on. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Colombian defender Juan Zuniga, who represented Neymar came out in the press asking for forgiveness for what happened while insisting that it was not his intention to kill the player but it was in the process of defend his nation, considering that the World Cup largest in the world. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Perhaps what happened to Zuniga, to do that is after seeing Neymar's issue, has been a talk in every corner of Brazil's streets. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, the analysis of soccer matters, if he sees that act to be cold, saying they are a few players who can do so. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Those are some of the few events among those that happened in the competition, there is a need for us Tanzanians to wonder what we have learned in that tournament. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Normally, we have been quick to emulate different things and especially those from outside the country. This tendency is especially focused on various groups including our artists who every day they are to emulate Western fashion that even sometimes it does not include our culture but to sell them to be sent without knowing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Our soccer players here in the country and other soccer stakeholders, after looking at this competition you must know that there is a lot to learn. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For our coaches who have been ving on me, they must recognize that the resignation is a normal thing in soccer and especially when your team is protected by goals. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But also the discipline issue for players is a very important thing because even the Ghanaian players that were taken back home before their team was released in that tournament, they have shown acts of misconduct that are not allowed to be followed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Cameroon has also been accused of sabotage to allegations that they have done a strike on the excuse of getting into that tournament without being paid their money. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This is another shame for African teams, if there is still a player who refused to show his level in major competitions like those claiming that he is not paid is not an issue to be followed but it is a high nonsense. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After this tournament there is a need for stakeholders, soccer leaders and even our players, first to be proud to witness this tournament but also to learn something that can help lift our soccer due to the challenges we witnessed in those competitions. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I don't know if there is a person who will be able to be proud of the act of Lius Suarez, if it bites a fellow player but he also praised the behavior of some of the players like Lionel Messi, who have decided to show clean soccer while serving their nation as required. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In addition, I am not sure if there are our players here in the country who will face the habit of blowing the fields as they did in Cameroon after being defeated. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The World Cup should be a catalyst for the Development of Football in our country. Let's not be quick to emulate you and the number of players. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3402 decorate beautify lady woman
query1332 EXAMPLE _OFrooms of a house
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_93951268 Tanzania Beer Company (TBL) through his journey Lager beer company has announced the sponsorship of taxi competition in the province where the marks are recognized as the ones of UDSM, we now think two and twelve teams that are expected to start tomorrow, speaking to journalists in the city of Dar es Salaam, they had given three million shillings to help those competitions to be successful. There are some gifts And the cups and cups and money Catherine said the journey Lager has been sponsoring the competition with the aim of growing this game that was supported by the secretary general of the darts party in Dar es Salaam and maybe let us unable to get a good sponsorship. The way we see in the toxic side Spreading it into the patterns, as they love the game they will die. What he wouldn't like to play in the environment of international shame will get a dashboard, they will get Capacity for themselves. I want to get a few seats which actually will be able to help us have a big challenge. Problem when I got But we are grateful for the youth to turn the board The problem is also the cost of running our parties, he has played a little we become a must. We need to take our game in schools as we talk to the race And in the struggle of the army Pause but later we will continue until now there are five hundred and one hundred players but our goals are to have more than one.
query1693 banana fruit
query3060 EXAMPLE _OFdairy product
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_48912147 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Do you meet the challenges of upbringing and you don't know where to start? J uma this has been the presence of many major events in the field of child care in our country. Because it was an event to launch a five-year Government plan in custody for women and children. This plan shows how it is encouraging to help the parents in implementing their responsibility of raising and giving them their children's needs. In this article, we will reflect on how you can use the government agencies to help you if you meet the challenges of upbringing. If the co-parent has abandoned the child and refused to provide services to a child, although his ability. This is a crime and faced with it go to the community welfare offices, gender desk and children at the police station or give information at the local government offices / village. The child law gives the authority of 'guidance' of all the all councils of the district, towns and cities. This means that health services, education and welfare of children in general are under the supervision of these councils. This includes taking appropriate measures to parents who do not want to fulfill their responsibilities of providing basic services to children including food, accommodation and clothing. Orphaned children unless support of family members are preparing. District councils, towns and cities are supposed to set aside money for what? The Child's law is being read together with the education law gives the following instructions about strokes. Although the strokes in school is allowed to be legal here in Tanzania, the purpose of Morocco (according to the law) is not to defend the child but to help them make corrections. That during the provision of these punishment, the child is being treated or in Kiganja (often girls) or matched and dressed in her clothes. Now if a child has been published on the head, on the back and other parts except those mentioned (cell and in the past), it is a crime. The reality of things in helping children living in difficult environments including orphans, children with disabilities, etc. Therefore, the community community, when you meet the orphaned children and he was not getting basic services for lack of support from brothers and family members. You can give a report to the local government offices or to the social welfare officer so that the child gets his agrees. If your child has been operated on at home, in school or elsewhere. Statistics show that one of the three girls here in Tanzania are operated on sexual violence before attaining 18 years. In seven children, one of them suffer sexual acts before attaining 18 years. Worse than these actions happen more in our houses and in school where it is expected to be a safe place for the child to live. It unveiled a child that will undergo these actions, please give a report to the social welfare officer, gender desk and children or call 116 numbers without payments to get professional advice. If they are in schools in many parts of our country is different from the requirements of the law and the existing guidelines. We have no intention to obey the law without deadly and many of us have not given time to understand the laws and procedures that protect the interests of our children. These reports are in every corner and especially on the internet. Start procedures by reading the law of a child which is now available in Swahili language in order to be in a better position to bring your child. Good Sunday! In the opinion and advice to call the number 116, which is special for child services in the country. This service will not pose payments from all networks in the country. Also you can see us through our Facebook page: Speak Tanzania, Twitter: @ Semhar and @ sematabia.org "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_32094231 When I have been maize, why doesn't you go to work at this hour because I just want to ask what happened yesterday the ball did. And AHH I'm not even at work Ehr at this time will go to work and go to the house Yesterday, our team defeated Arsenal is above the mm yesterday it was two of the two to join me and know that the player we lived. We can use it as how many mangoes Five thousand today left our new man who money will also make the surprises yesterday my brother mym there, if the game is not yesterday, you will tell me then you will say that the timeline does not have the ball to me. That's the first one. When he was first made a good coach that he did in his twenty years with a lot of joy yesterday, I want twenty years with Arsenal mym we AHH I got like I was still from work and then I decided now there is nothing I was doing. Days like these people will oke to work how many days AHH this time I want those even the other hours we need one. Other hours to have North Korea something you do with it, you must look at what you decide to look at well you enjoy your life Ehr AHH is the fact that this is a way that comes to fun too. AHH but first did not look at him and I understand you can remember the people who were AHH of Tuesday were on the sides and also their new haiya. The income you know number one of us and milk it is not the moment he was in the way he was in the way he was in the way by the way then the attackers had gone to the second. He scored the second goal there. He should go to the net, it was ten minutes or ten or three mym. That's not a date for my brother, I will enjoy it completely. He has done so that we can forget the van Persie. Kind of you know that there is a person of Manchester judy has been very bad and has told me that your resources and the first number one can vote for the same picture, so that you can't forget you so much that you should call it again. Instead Ehr Tell you that he got a new trainer and yet he does not have that he has not yet arrived, the level of akule is still waiting for them to accept it. Who Boys like the one who is the one who is the one that doesn't even have a name then you have fun, I don't know Latifah, yes, then. Completely, what is called who we should know who is the way he is doing today, today, today with the devil Hundreds of Manchester are the ones who are playing with the game today. Mym is playing AHH, it's a ball that how many years I'm AHH bad and? But the ball today is the very good thing today is one of the clear guys today is the same football ball that makes people vote for the quarter night. For me so there is no conflict between them, there is a conflict between two who want to take revenge When you know all of your money and all the money they are for those who are now asking for their money to recovery. My mother is probably all the evening to explain all the two out of then the current research is not only those of the people of those who are not flurn with them. Don't you know that they are now then they can't wait and you know you know you know that there is a Barcelona coach, Guardiola's trainer and that he didn't know you know you know you know that there is Barcelona's coach, Guardiola's trainer and that didn't get me back soon as I get to the same time when I get back. Ehrohh some of them and the one that you should do with you and you will receive what it is not to be. When you get when you get my phone, then don't come with Tulia then you start again to tell them all. No I want to go first early and find out the place where you know the three you know very well. So... If we should be given there because there is a must now that people know that it's the ball that we are going to have a year So but everyone must be. Ohh is the same then there must be there and we will also start a lot of money. Ehrohh AHH no need a lot of time you know tomorrow is a day of work we're just drinks as they were three as three we go back to house in the morning we are at work And we and there is a leader who must get the soul today, where are you end no to work, I say the work you can say together yesterday not to say it had been in Malaysia. But I didn't know the bad morning they should be at work No............. that one of our son also knows the ball knows he knows the same ones that people lie mym will know it was there, I know very well it was going to see the ball Then you will see a person who knows that this date will also be able to talk to you? AHH but he will understand that they will understand about that when I failed to go tomorrow I will go that day I will make sure that I will do so I will do so I can work for me another day I could not be able to go. AHH should be infectious but how do your brother have been many days AHH family is okay
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_29609805 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The CCM grounds for the best infrastructure in the past few weeks I heard the Minister of Information, Nape Nnauye saying the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has a responsibility to sit with stakeholders including the owners of plots, to check the procedure of putting modern equipment in the fields that are used for the premier league games so that it can be easy to serve the players when they are faced with problems in the field. Nape gave that advice in Mwanza town during the preparation of a special game that was organized for the purpose of contributing to the family of the player Ismail Halfan to lose life in heart attack at the end of last year. Editor, advice of minister Nape is good but it is good that he would have directed them to the Revolutionary Party who are the owners of many stadiums that are used in the premier league. CCM is the owners of the grounds like CCM Kirumba, Sokoine, Majimaji, Nangwanda Sijaona, Jamhuri Morogoro and Dodoma and Samora. Being the owner of the grounds, CCM has a responsibility of putting important medical services to the players. Mwanzagi Chunya District, Msambya. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_50198875 TANESCO is increasing the towers of phones Sep 12, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government is losing billions of shillings every month as a result of rigging that is being done through mobile phones across the country, Good Citizen has been informed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The investigation that was done by the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) to the towers that are used by the Tigo phone company only in Dar es Salaam city has revealed the loss of approximately four billion shillings. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The masts at the moment is run by an international company known by the name Helios Towers Tanzania (HTT), which was sold to the masts and TIGO in the year 2010. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the documents that this newspaper has received from TANESCO, due to the success that is getting in the previous investigations, the organization will conduct an inspection of all mobile companies that are doing its work here in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The investigation that was done by TANESCO resulted from the news that was found earlier that many mobile phone companies are getting electricity through the towers to avoid paying the real cost that are required. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A citizen has seen documents from the team that toured the investigation from 10th July this year due to the order of doing that one day before the Acting General Director of TANESCO, Feltm Mramba. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Together with other things, Good Citizen has been told that the team of experts was ordered to investigate if there are theft, what is happening, where are the costs that TANESCO had lost from that theft. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "The investigation of TANESCO noted that although the record that had been discovered that there are 259 masts of Tigo, we noted that there are 363 towers that are 104 which are 104 masts at the record that we have. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "15 percent of the entire minorities were found with problems. That's the same as a number of 56 masts. In particular, the towers that make a real price, poor masts and the one that does not exist in our record. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "The minstance on the ground is that the electricity meters have been suspended from unprecedented cost, which is closed as the governor should not stop the procedures and other things. In fact, it is very sad, considering that phone companies and its partners are international, "said one source of this newspaper that participated in that investigation. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the report of that investigation, the towers that was defeated in Temeke district is the one that was affected by the bombings where the losses caused by more than shillings. 1.5 billion shillings while Ilala follows with causing a loss of one billion shillings and followed by two regional offices of TANESCO, Dar es Salaam which are Kinondoni and Kinondoni North that caused the loss of shillings. 425 million and 720 million shillings. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking to this newspaper about the report of TANESCO, the relations officer of Tigo Tanzania, Amani Nkurlu said that their company does not deal with anything about the towers because it is run by HTT and they are using only communication. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "We have not been defended by TANESCO about that but I think that they need to answer is HTT who is basically the ones who are running. We gave it the task of running a minority that we can take the strength in other areas, "he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to reports on the internet, HTT paid Tigo an amount of 80 million American dollars in December 2010 for the purpose of selling the towers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. HTT is part of the International Helios Towers in Africa (HTA) that is making a business of running the minority in three countries in Africa that are Tanzania, Ghana and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In July this year, the Vodacom mobile phone company was selling its communication masts at the HTT company where its payment was to be given 24.5 percent of the shares of Helios. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Vodacom is the largest communication company in Tanzania and it was owning its 1149 masts in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Helios Towers Africa website explains that the company owns 4700 phones in Africa and has officially started work in the year 2009. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, Helios is against the allegations of TANESCO. Through his spokesperson, Michael Magambo, HTT has denied any actions of stealing or taking electricity of TANESCO. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "We have a report and the investigation of TANESCO. However, we have told them that there are things they did not view them well. They have done an inspection and I think they have a different report now. It is possible that you have the old report, "he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to Magambo, the bills for electricity payment is paid by HTT to TANESCO each month it reaches one billion shillings each month and that it has been paying without problems. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2503 kitchen
query409 business commerce poverty
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_28061966 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Government solve the challenges of the health sector "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Hellen Mlacky "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 29 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The deputy minister of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Doctor Hamisi Kigwangalla has said that the government is required to prepare to deal with the big challenges in the health sector that is derived from the increase of people whereby every year more than one million children are born. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Doctor Kigwangalla made the remarks yesterday in the discussion of the system of providing health services in the country that was organized by the Swiss embassy in the country as part of the commemoration of 50 years of cooperation between the government and Tanzania. "There is a large number of people increasing every year whereby Tanzania every year we receive more than one million children, therefore 50 years in Tanzania, we will have more than 100 million children and this is a very big challenge in the health sector and our economy," said the Deputy Minister and added: "We must stay tuned in the environment and how to get food, employment and how to serve our people in health and other sectors, so every day we see challenges are increasing in the health sector and the budget is increasing but we still see there is no improvements due to various challenges." In addition, he said they have received opinions about the cost of getting in the health insurance system for the purpose of serving groups that have been exempted according to the policies, the elderly, children under the age of five, pregnant women and diseases that don't get services. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_57362475 The big shop of a mixture of products that is, the TSN Group company has started a special procedure of selling products that are produced in the country under the plan of the shop to encourage the implementation of the national policy, first, the marketing manager of the shop. Mary Haule said that under that plan, farmers have been educated on how to produce quality products that have been put in good packaging, so that the market in big markets markets said products like fruits, rice and beans have a big market in the supermarket shops if they are produced on the level. Good and also on the packaging. What you know is that many people are wrong. AHH many entrepreneurs can do business but the problem is packaging and BarCode So if entrepreneurs can organize well to put the codes in their products is a product that is acceptable until outside the country Many people like the products of Tanzanians And even here we are not coming from. Watch the international news
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45694794 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Journalists will continue to increase the speed to announce SENSA's news "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rashid Mkwinda "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. And, Thompson Mpanji, Iringa. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The call has been given to the media in the country to use the remaining period until the census period to increase the speed of broadcasting of the census by taking the right message to the citizens including insisting on the theme of the nation that, "census for development, stay tuned." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Provincial Commissioner of Iringa, Dkt.Christina Ishengoma, has made that call during the opening of the census seminar for journalists in the southern highlands regions and the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara which ended yesterday (August 12) at the Ruaha National University (RUCO). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Dkt.Christine said that despite the slogan, the journalists are advised to explain to the citizens that are important about the importance of the whole census period so that they can be prepared to prepare well. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He mentioned the most important things include the day of the start of the exercise of August 26, 2012 where those who will be counted are the ones who will be in Tanzania on Saturday night on Saturday, 25th of August, 2012. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He clarified that people who will be counted in the households are those who will be lying in the household on the night of the census as well as those who know the job of the night that the night did not sleep in households including the workers of the health sector, defense and security in hand with the information sector. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The provincial commissioner has given emphasis on the heads of households to put the correct records of all its people including age, education levels, employment that he did, where they should be seen during the day and for women in the reproductive condition. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_95575385 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Fire is now on customs tax on May 22, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The scandal of corruption in the customs tax unit of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) at the port of Dar es Salaam that involved the tax evasion of billions has entered a new chapter, Citizen Mwema, has confirmed that the steps have already been taken and already some officers have been dismissed from positions and are required to express themselves within 14 days "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the details of confirmation that measures have been taken, the chairman of the board of TRA, Doctor. Tine Chijoriga, has told Good Citizen earlier this week that the former customs commissioner has been conned in that position so as to investigate the accusations that concern them together with other characters to be completed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to news reports of the long time of this newspaper, the corruption of government revenue in the port of Dar es Salaam has been involving one company that is involved in the sale of home equipment that began its activities in the year 2004, being run by business people with Arab origin, being mentioned to cooperate with some of the leaders and senior executives of TRA to purchase the country revenue. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In its post at the end of May and early June this year, this newspaper published a story about the theft of revenue in the port of Dar es Salaam, where one private company has been helping other traders to avoid revenue by billions. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But in his conversation with Good Citizen, in a lot of attention that considers the scope of work laws, Doctor. Chijoriga said; "we have begun to take action... although it is to complete our investigation at the moment you cannot say one directly is the character of those problems... it is still a suspect," he said and added that; "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Internal audit TRA (the internal audit unit (TRA) did its work since April and submit its report to me about the loss of revenue... now there are characters mentioned who are in two different areas of employment. There are those involved are the employees of TRA but the employees of these boards are the commissioners from the deputy commissioners and even the managers, but there are also those involved are those employed by the management of TRA, " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Now on the procedures of work, I who is the chairperson of the board to deal with these contracts of employment that they have been given by the board and the management of others. The step that we have made up to now is to ask the management of customs commissioner Bateyunga to make another different job when the investigation is ongoing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But also Bateyunga has led to the accusations of as stipulated by internal audit Report in order to reply within 14 days if the work laws do, after his answers we will know what to do. Therefore for now, we cannot say it is true he has been involved until we get his explanation and all his colleagues, "said Doctor. Chijoriga. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When he was asked why the suspect is going to work although in different responsibilities in the previous employer and the risk of destroying evidence, he insisted they are focusing on the laws of work. Part of those talks between the Doctor. Chijorian and author of this newspaper were right. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Good Citizen: Why is it a suspect in other roles and employer who he accused him and who is also investigating? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Doctor. Chijoriga: We must follow the laws of work as they want is not my personal choice or board. The work laws are requesting him not to take a stern action without being satisfied by listening to his explanations. Remember the report with details that he is required to answer is not a judgment except carrying the accusations. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mwema: Huoni can use the opportunity to denounce the evidence and especially considering that the network of suspects is big inside and out of TRA... why did they fail to suspend it maybe as it happened to the office of land in Kinondoni District? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Doctor. Chijoriga: We can't go to office suddenly we need revenue that is why we have removed it when he was the beginning. But that is one of the steps that can be taken later. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In another step, when he was asked about the action against the business people who were involved to evade legal taxes through that company of equipment at home, Doctor. Chijoriga said that investigation will be conducted and that those involved will be required to pay the whole amount of tax that they had since started that game until now. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_29969655 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Action can be taken against childhood." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Jacquiline Mrisho, Maelezo- Kilombero "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 12 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kilombero District Commissioner in Morogoro Province, James Ihunyo has ordered directors to take disciplinary action against the executives who will be proven to have child marriages in their areas. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Those executives who need to be required is a step in the villages, streets and wards as a way to eradicate that problem. The order has been issued by the head of that district when he was reading a speech during the commemoration of the World Girl Child Day organized by Plan International Organization and held in IF village. Also, he wants the head of the police force and the executive director to ensure that all those who are married or killing girls under the age of 18 are arrested and taken to court. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_18434428 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Al-Scandinavia is not surprised by the presidency "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. November 2, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The head of the Egyptian Armed Forces, Abdul-Fattah al-Scandinavia, has said in a statement published yesterday by Al-Seyassah newspaper in Kuwait, that he has decided to run for the presidential election scheduled for April. The newspaper has quoted al-Scandinavia saying the issue has been decided and that he has no other way of response to the Egyptian citizens. According to DW, the report comes just a week after the Supreme Council of the military in the country ordered Jemage al-Scandinavia to contest in the election. Mr Trump Said. Al-Scandinavia is sure of winning, after defeating the democratically elected president, Mohammed Mursi, in July last year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_99353489 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TRA to educate the Chinese, investment "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Regina Kumba "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 23 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) in collaboration with the embassy of China in the country have organized a seminar for the business community of China to educate the issues of tax and investment. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That seminar will take place on November 25th this year in Dar es Salaam city and that it will help to provide education to those Chinese traders who are in the country to consider tax issues. Speaking in Dar es Salaam city yesterday, the Director of Education for the taxpayer, Richard Kayombo, said the seminar will enable the traders to use tax laws that are required to reduce taxes. In addition, he said the topics which will be presented include changes in this financial year budget, customs issues and control of products, tax tax especially in the construction sector and employment taxes. Kayombo said those traders will also get an opportunity to ask questions and get clarification of different issues so as to enable them to do their activities in accordance with the laws and procedures of the country. The chairperson of the organizing committee from the community of those businessmen, Andrew Huang said Tanzania and China have had a long-term partnership in various issues. He said the seminar that will be attended by more than 50 Chinese companies, it will help its participants to learn different issues and especially in tax laws in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1964 motorcycle
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84383808 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Jabari Robben scored 100 Berlin: The star of the Netherlands national team, Arjen Robben, insisted his status as one of the most skills in the world when he scored his 100 goal in the 2-0 victory that was signed by Bayern Munich against Freiburg on Tuesday night at the Allianz Arena. That win enabled Bayern to control the leadership of the Bundesliga with 42 points, 12 points ahead of VfL Wolfsburg holding the second position. Goals from Robben and Thomas Mueller went through a Bayern win even though a big blow to Pep Guardiola's squad was witnessing Medhi Benatia, Robert Lewandowski and Xabi Alonso getting injuries. However, perhaps those injuries are being brought to Bayern Munich especially considering that Guardiola's youth are preparing to start a holiday season on Sunday after the final match on Friday against Mainz away. Previously, Bayern's chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge named Robben as the "best player in the world" after the Dutch laughing and Won twice in the 4-0 victory against Augsburg Jum ago. Robben, 30, shut down nine Goals in 12 Bundesliga matches this year "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58558158 I am no notice While Tanzania is joining with other nations in Africa today to mark the day of the African Child some of the children in commemorating this day have requested the politicians that are contesting for leadership positions this year calling for their strategies to help and promote Tanzanian child David Ramadhani has prepared the following report They have also requested the government to review a one-year-old marriage law for one name which allows the female children aged ten and four years than the court's permission and a ten-year message to get married to their parents' traditional laws of some tribes to make marriage decisions based on the traditions and their traditions will reach a candidate who says when he gets into power they defend and will be treated. Even one There is a candidate, he says, I will take a lot of women, I don't know that bad things you'll see that it happened a simple time he was not in town not others have the same buses but not yet. We have not yet been able to have a school bus so So I shrink my Ukawa in state where there is what it is. Security right Even plenty Whether it is and especially politicians Like for instance: These politicians Of Janet many especially in the international life, the secret and human rights is a organization that has been looking for human rights reports for ten years now. The Tanzanian child has been concerned about the reports especially due to sexual violence and rape The executive director of the center offers a plea to stop the events in the country We have a system that has said that legal system will take its course Our colleagues of the police Which they have a duty to take action to those people who are doing their actions, then take a chance and good luck this time we have a gender desk in many police stations but also ministries that are concerned as the ministry of health and welfare of the community whose social welfare officials have been given a great responsibility of legal and be able to manage the rights of those children. A total of one hundred thousand shillings that was a union of independent African countries, Pope YOU passed a declaration of witchcraft, one of the union members about remembering the children of Soweto, that is in South Africa who were killed by the former government of Nansio Town, ten and six hundred thousand, seventy-six thousand shillings. The children were demanding the right to be discriminated against other human rights. David Ramadhani channel ten A panel of doctors
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_40691198 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Korti refuses the DPP request on bail and Richard Mungai in the case against the suspect of terrorism whose car exploded at the police station and captured the death of four people among them the police, has dismissed the request by the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), the request by the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). The request of Mr. Tobiko's request to shut down a bond of 20 million shillings that he was given to Ahmed Draw Ali, the senior judge Miss Lucy Mbillness said there is no evidence that was presented to confirm the defendant to run away. Ms Mbugua said on May 12 he asked Mister A and at the same time, greed that it's not a lot of bail, "the court IM to annulment him Mister A bail that gave M no reason, a post was given for that. There is no ush that has happened to the defendant, "said the judge. Ms Mbugua said that the DPP step is with the inspiration that he has not explained to ti. He refused to DPP that Mister Ali is involved with two other terrorists who were charged in court on May 26. Magistrate said Mister Tobiko did not submit a new evidence to prove to the way the two suspects were related to Mister Ali. The judge said that when he left the defendant on May 12, 2014, on a bond of 20 million shillings he has not been able to get it and are still in custody. The court said it was clear that the defendant was sentenced to a long sentence being found guilty. The leader of the charges, Mister Duncan has been charged with 150 a primary to oppose being charged in ma, Ms ana is that they have been accused of a 4 DPP court, Mister A; o by na. a Richard GV. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_19621468 We have witnessed all the important phases of the growth of solar that uses charcoal to be satisfied that it can be true Harvey if you tell these professionals The viewers are insufficient to see that it is So that I have created this means that electricity has killed here doing what should happen after scoring it is not everything we have a boat that becomes an energetic when we say it will be complete. To give our cotton streets to find out ten and ten days. Two points for therefore preparing the fire to expect to expect to get in order to meet for two years, the activities of professionalism and it is for instance for instance for instance, he has found that things have not been able to insult me as it is ten in the past ten years if there is a profit that will take over the fifty years in the sea, we had hurt the mother there is a sentence that is fundamental if you want to insult me because we are using for the flesh, we've got the most dangerous way to use for two fifty years coming down is a advocacy person. Here. Cride from the middle of you will take it. Malaria Several It is drinking water For the rest of live live. You will show us at ht; unk, gt; list here we have seen electricity is coming here now and we can end up with the lights we hate is using electricity that uses charcoal in Tabora.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_10905226 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Are you still an indication that the end of the world is near? Netflix, Nairobi, the issue of men speculation has risen across the country from the East to the West. This issue allows Kenyans with you because every sun has come out and landing, it is not the teachers to produce ten female children, the father has given me her child and other bad disasters but it is sad and cry throughout our families. The issue of sex has also taken over the causes of pastors and caused the risk of infection of the virus and other non-communicable diseases. Female believers have been sitting in the church until a few hours where they gave them, their father and even their brothers have complained greatly. What is believed is that many preachers have changed their others to stead sex. This issue has caused many marriages and many families to collapse. Preachers or civil servants should work depending on the requirements that are accompanied by his own love and to suppress the citizens. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53255349 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The decision of the Parliament Bangua Bongo, Honorable churches, do not know other people is insane. Let's give me one reason why the parliamentary debates should be killed and I will give them ten reasons why it should be done completely. Again, I will tell you as a very ordinary citizen. God should prevent us from the speculation of their discussion. Again these days with the decision is not, therefore, I have a need to listen to them as they get themselves like they are in the village instead of fantasy. Let's go out of the national security and national security. Linda fools in a country respect equal rights, we have to protect themselves in society. Well. If the only reputation of being a member of parliament is to be able to know how to read and write only, while even if the driver must have a form four certificate, why are the seats, let's give me one reason why should not be the solution to the culprits? He has not apologized to be the minister. She is asked to be given a job that needs a mind. He has been asked to be a member of parliament for his hand to go to a chameleon and chips. When a person was not a member of parliament, he should say in parliament because it is the terms of terms of the Honorable. Now if the statement takes place in front of us in the whole country, we are doing justice. Not his fault, he is not impressed, why should he be appointed? As we show a Professor in class? The whole professor provides an incredible words but he is predicted by his college, those who know his stupidity is those students. If a Professor is protected by why the Honorable who knows to read and write only does not fail? That is why Tanzania is a country of people who are in the Almighty God is clear that we are supposed to protect the status of these honorable members who ota to look for work that goes with their qualifications. Linda's language on that we would like our national language and we don't like you to do it, we must realize that they are others who don't know our national language well. Even foreign is a problem. For example, when a person uses the word "beige" knows his meaning? It's not his fault if he was opposition when the teachers got in class. Or because he has been used to stay in the village and the village language is completely bad for other citizens to spread Swahili. So, in order to protect our citizens against the bad use of the language which they receive or get to them, these use must be secret. When there are no doubt those who are coming out to be interrogated and spread the wrong words that were said in the privacy of antantic. Linda faith, the peace of the previous voters was coming out to elect this or the one. I don't think that most of them look at their candidate at the political level. They look at the colors of his clothes without caring about the content inside the color without forgetting those who watched the brown or t-shirt or a selfie. If we don't believe, how many went to the campaign meetings of prospective members of their constituency? Now they want to realize that the favorite person is doing things like this, this can make me laugh. They will fail to work. They will fail to keep his family. They will fail to build a country. Yes. When I was younger, we trust our leaders. We respect them not because they were honorable, again this word was born completely. We respect them from the words and acts of respect. That is why we are volunteering to die and recovery to build a nation. We went to power even with the students. We went to teach our father and sisters and sisters and brothers to read and write... without demanding five cents, because we believe our leaders. We really believe we were on one trip. Not all of us have a suit. Now just imagine, see the other words of the knowledge offered by the Honorable, people will have Mori true to build the nation. Linda's interest is a foundation of a mid-fielder, those who will be added and I realise that, unfortunately, this country has left God who like to follow the mid-fielder. Those who are with, the winners, have the right to protect and without suffering from the eye of the second side. This is the first commandment. Linda needs your interest to protect the interests of others. That's why someone in the spring, he looks just one thing. Being a woman and women in the second side are being assaulted by a man on their side, he will go ahead of humanity and honor of women. We must keep the interest of his group ahead. He must protect his colleagues with interest together. Most notably, as a person in a certain area, potentially as a colleague, who are the first, others are the dream of allies. However, it is not good to be seen because you can be misunderstood by the citizens who do not know these regulations or those who do not know these regulations or those who do not know what they have got. That is why we can see the scenes for people to protect their interests. Linda the male system does not have a mistake. The country has its culture. His culture is a male system that does not get yourself. Bloggers are losing time. I myself, I am looking for you to tell you every corner and you love you, I must give you a gift. There is wrong things. I do this because we are men. Being ahead. Now if someone is doing so in his life he has a mistake to see all women are there? Isn't his ideas? But in front of citizens with limited access and limited access to themselves who are the most voters, you can be misunderstood. That is why we use privacy to protect our culture. Don't tell me that it is not true. This is not a point. The point is that we should protect our culture of seeing them as if we do not do so, at the end of the day people will know that they have a mind than us. Mmmh!! Linda the open source and Creative Commons have been made. We do not want a general broadcast because there are above, but these retailers are wrong? Here, every Honorable can decide to make me laugh at the time he wants himself. It's not the time he has been buried and sleep due to the state functions or when the head broke out due to the heavy discussions in the nearby bar. It is time he can feel well. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3309 name given name girl person
query478 British colonies
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_78352041 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Zantel is planning to create employment to the youth in the country "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. December 22, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In that plan to reduce the problem of employment to the youth in the country, Zantel Company has organized to create employment to the youth. Speaking during the launch of the shop and the new customer service center located in China Plaza Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam the day before yesterday, chief executive officer of Zantel, Benoit Janin said that in collaboration with the government will create employment to youths as sales agents together with Azerbaijan agents. He said that is the second center in Dar es Salaam, that is helped by various parts of the service, where Zantel has a plan to open more shops to provide services so that its customers can access services and products anywhere. "In this shop, if there are other shops in Tanzania, our customers will get services and different products with the quality of 4G together with other standards that will be able to meet various needs. "These products are being sold at an affordable price, an issue that will make many of the owners of communication devices that are important for the century. "For example, we have a special phone for students and business people, that have been given cheap packages. These can help them make communication wherever they are, "he said. Janin said all shops have employees with knowledge and skills and they are ready to serve their customers and help them when they need internet services, which are currently important in daily life. He said that while at the final stages of improvement of their network, they are ensuring that they share products and services so that they can be able to reach customers easily. The opening of the shop in Kariakoo area is one of the strategies of the company to move its services closer to customers, whereby recently the employees of Zantel did a tour in various provinces in the country to speak to their customers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_63896423 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Former memoir - U.SRASIL and Sweden, January 26, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The story was written five years ago... the Emirates Stadium... on Wednesday 26 March, 2008 I went to watch the match between Brasil and Sweden in the north of London. That day, different countries were competing for a friendly tournament. They said it is friendly but it is competing for before the world cup tournament that will begin in September every place. I don't know if Taifa Stars will come from what steps, but it is allah these days we are trying, again our coach, a Brazilian, at least we look at the size of the balls. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I have gone to Emirates. Inside the match, there are non-eyes on the pitch. Every popular player like Frederick Lundberg (Sweden) or Robinho (Brasil) touched me the noise is getting off, vigils will think the goal has come. I am going to get this big balls so as to happen in the field than even the ball itself. There is music being hit. The kind of people who are there. Zogo tele tele. For instance, in 1988 I went to Maracana (U.S. Rio De Janeiro) to watch Brasil struggling with Argentina. The popular player Diego Maradona was the star of those days. Brazil and Warsaw are not given out as a dog and a CAT. I was delighted by the rappers of Maradona (I don't think I have seen a good player like that from that day, maybe Zinedine Zidane); but I don't dare to celebrate. Brazil's supporters would be killed. Something interesting... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Then the day before yesterday, the Arsenal stadium, what interesting is that "Mexican Wave" started during the World Cup Mexico (when he played Pele and his colleagues) in 1970. If you come up to everyone he is taking the hell on foot, he woke up hands in the air, that goes to the whole stadium you are communicating. And then there are vigils and joy. OOOOO and AAAA... Kgone to a mom is to attend a hell, meet your fellow human beings, screaming, and cut off. This is when you see the strength and inspiration of survival. The Stadium had been jazeera. You don't think you are surrounded by insects, flowers and chips. Life. The strength. In the past, the ball was said to be at the junction of the path (especially in Europe) singing with bad voices seen and insulting. These days have changed. There are people and those who are, men, and women, fighting for young people. Brazil beat Sweden 1-0 but me is not important. The importance is to be in the horrible situation, interesting and exciting. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_14242339 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The largest ship will oppose the port of Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 30 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) has said that now the doors are open to the largest ship to dock at the port of Dar es Salaam, because the technology of modern ships allows. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Apart from the technology that is used to make those ships, the authority has improved the skills of its coaches after taking them to the South African countries, Denmark and France to get training on how to incorporate the ship of that type at the port. The executive director of that authority, Deusdedit Kakoko said that after the coaches of the authority managed to bring a big ship in the history of Dar es Salaam port with a length of 261 meters. The ship called MV Hammonia Grenada which has the ability to carry 4,256 rubles, has been forced to dock at the port of Dar es Salaam and to drop 483. Kakoko said the port of Dar es Salaam has the ability to serve the ship with that size in its fourth dock, which is the dock number eight, nine, 10 and 11 which have a depth of 11 meters. He said the arrival of that ship is enough evidence that the port has the ability to receive a big ship of that kind, which had previously threatened the port of Mombasa only. Previously, TPA has already managed another big ship with a length of 250 meters and later it brought another ship with a length of 255 meters. According to Captain Mwingamno, a 261 meters long boat usually ends the port of Mombasa due to the smallness of the entrance but the arrival of this ship has officially opened the commercial doors. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41144373 Samia bursts Mwanza "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The explanation "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our writer, Mwanza "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 19 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Vice President of Samia Suluhu Hassan has given a period of one month from yesterday to executives and senior leaders of Ilemela District moving to the district and left the habit of staying in another district on the excuse of lack of government houses. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Vice President gave that directive in his speech to the citizens and the executives of Ilemela Municipality Council who came out for the launching ceremony of the administration of the municipality and handed over 1,074 desks that were given by the parliament office. The report that was released by the Office of Communications of the Vice President said, Samia has urged those executives to be close to their workplaces so that they can be close to the citizens and help them solve the problems and the problems that are facing them quickly. While in Nyamagana District, Mwanza Province, when he shares a foundation stone in the renovation project of Nyakato slaughterhouses in Mwanza town, the Vice President instructed the leadership of Mwanza town to fully supervise the project of renovation of Nyakato slaughterhouses and that executives are found to sabotage the project which will cost more than three billion shillings to be taken against them. The Vice President made that statement in his speech to the citizens and the executives of Mwanza town who attended the ceremony of laying the foundation stone in the renovation project of Nyakato abattoir that involved the improvement of the abattoir to preserve water, construction of cold rooms for storing meat and the construction of a machine for treating sewerage water from the abattoir. The Vice President also urged the Provincial Commissioner of Mwanza, John Mongella to ensure the management of the management of the slaughterhouses which will improve the performance of the slaughterhouses. Regarding the collection of taxes, the Vice President urged the executives of all councils of Mwanza province to increase the speed of the collection of government revenue by electronic means from different financial sources that will help the implementation of the development projects of citizens in that province. Samia called on the citizens to ensure they claim the receipt when they buy different products, because that will help to increase revenue that will be directed to development projects. In his opening meeting of his five-day work tour in Mwanza province, Vice President Samia stressed the leaders and executives of Mwanza province to work hard in serving the citizens by considering the regulations and procedures of the public. He warned that the fifth term government will not be taken to take stern measures against leaders and executives who will go against the ethics of public service in their workplaces. He urged the leaders of Mwanza province to fully protect the state of peace and stability and take a stern action to people who want to destroy the peace of the country. The Vice President has concluded his five-day work tour in Mwanza province by inspecting, launching and laying the foundation stones in various development projects in Ilemela, Misungwi, Kwimba, Magu and Nyamagana. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_47298481 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. When he attacked the wife for not preparing a steak when it happened in this area where he attacked his wife and gave him a Little girl to prepare the family to open K a year despite giving him money to buy food. As a result of that incident, the mother started a year when he was in hospital while the elderly was banned from the police station waiting for the charges of attacking him. It is said that the mother got money to forget his children and to fight for her parents. According to the quake, he changed his only cow for his family to celebrate the new year because he lacked money to buy a chat on Christmas. For this reason, when he got money he decided to give his wife to buy food to celebrate the year when it starts. "Polo gave me a lot of her family when he missed the cricket on Christmas. For this reason, he decided to sell his own charm in order to keep his sons in the new year. He gave his wife a lot of money to buy it enough, "said the poem. But round reports that instead of fulfilling the needs of the elderly, the children asked him to them and handed him his mother a certain amount of money. It is said that he sat at their home for one day and he came back home carrying a quarter kilograms of meat, tomatoes and the oil for testing and finding her husband as he has given him as a aimati. According to the sun, the old man who was married and hamaki asked his wife where he had gone and after missing him a satisfactory answer, the conflict and chaos erupted between them and that is when a mother was on the wood for firewood and injured. The neighbors intervened and divide them. The mother was rushed to hospital to receive treatment and the elderly was caught and pushed to the cell waiting for his wife. The surprise is that the mother's parents refused to see their daughter the hospital when they were aware of him and decided to visit her husband's cell. And CORNELIUS MUM "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84535897 Tell me it's going OUT. Never me it's not that I told you that why is it in office even this time is good to shocked everyone from lunch to ask him to ask me. Right let I talk to ye and then I will tell you Let me go back to toe but don't say where I told me that I want to say it is mi I told him there and when you tell me it is a mi even if he refuses to come and even know what we find OUT to write me as he said. Uhuh I have never been told to let us left us Ehhe Bana and biz Restaurant as well as Mercy I will talk and then I will tell you that where people say now is not I will vote later then let's talk about you and let you tell you. Ehhe then Right Ok does not tell me to tell me Halo ohh you are in an easy box for the money or okay then I will vote later we will talk. When I hear you even when I get into a small Bank here let us forget, we will talk later If there is an end, there is a fee you want to go to send here, let's let us talk the same.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_13079062 Your news, the news that we are supposed to see are metal still remain like today we don't talk to the other, we are using their children what things we go against the income we need to get to the mother, there are these people after getting the opportunity to get to get into it as usual we are at different stations. And these people savers their fare to them and get the ones that will come out to predicted the interests not to ignore them because you have an intention to help the money you look but the one to tell us that we are still going to go for real me here I am called for Meshack I am with my colleague. A mother from the market will reduce If you expect things it will be today as usual and the surprises in our first topic we will talk about being asked to contest for the presidency, they should have your time to citizens and other people. Choosing a person who does not understand The meaning of the new relative Possibly her children But before we started to find a little bit here by this topic We report that we are back to Masai great Diva, that it says to carry out the candidates for the time to give the citizens a time to follow them maybe it is true if I know this year it is a year of elections and in every election has a different outcome that should be done before we finish and if it will be remembered by being followed. Buddhists from parties decided to announce their intention for the start of the journey After what if Tanzanians can also follow up on the evidence of those parties so that they can get the candidates' decision to those who have behavior. A great world and A problem but only two months will be done so that people should start voting. Of fact that it's just a mi. In countries that tend to have a lot of new gains in Tanzania? Now we are too much, I don't have to confusing the citizens. If all you have been noticed in your village where you are urban and you have been advised to give the school a budget. Speaking to the second Adam is to go to do their campaign and visit friends who will be able to come easier for them but it needs someone more to want to be the president. Our Swahili language that says a bit, but these hours as usual, I was like I would like to cooperate with stakeholders and walala Ramadhani everything that Mwanza province.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_48774670 China to build a modern stadium in Bagamoyo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by John Gagrisk, Kibaha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 13 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Coastal Province is expected to have a modern stadium which will help to promote youth soccer and lift sports in that province which has been claimed to be one of the provinces that will bring talents. The stadium is expected to be built in the Msexual village and the government of the people of China, the aim being to promote that game in that province. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking at a special event that was organized for the purpose of going to visit the area which will be constructed at the stadium, the retired president of the fourth phase, Doctor Jakaya Kikwete who was the guest of honor at the event, said the stadium will be built through the sponsorship of the government of China. "This Stadium will be a savior in the development of soccer in the Coastal region and the country as a whole. It will help in raising the talents of upcoming players and be used in the club and the national team for the future days, "said Doctor Kikwete. He said the aim of the construction of that stadium is to see that the Coastal Region and Tanzania in general produces many talented players who will be used in the national team, different clubs and others being sold out of the country. "I have talked to our friends of the government of China and they have agreed to build up the stadium and that is the foundation thing in the development of the soccer game in our nation," said Doctor Kikwete. Doctor Kikwete said that he commends the government of china for seeing the importance of helping to build the plot, adding that when the moment will be completed, it will have other games that will be done far from the soccer game, the aim being to give them the opportunity for the youths to be able to show their talents. And the representative of China ambassador in the country, Yang Tong promised to continue to cooperate with the government of Tanzania especially in the sports sector. On his part, the member of parliament of Chalinze region, Ridhiwani Kikwete said that his main aim is to ensure he promote sports in his constituency and the completion of the construction of that stadium will help the youth to grow their talents. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84147127 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They called land rapists more "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by editor "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 17 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In many areas of the country there have been a long cry for some of the citizens missing land for agriculture, rearing and construction of residential houses while in the areas surrounding them, there are few citizens who have divided the big areas where many of them have turned into a lot of destruction as a result of not being continued. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That cry has now been heard because the fifth term government has started to take action if they have made those people from not developing, instead, to give them a commitment to develop including being given farmers for the purpose of agricultural activities. If that is not enough, the day before yesterday, the Minister of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, William Lukuvi noted the government's strategy to capture more people who come to the areas without developing where from July next year, to put up strict ownership laws and owners of those land will be charged high taxes. We are increasing the government's decision because the situation has been bad, the rich are owning a big land without developing the while they are surrounded by citizens in those areas they do not have areas to grow and build houses. They are using that opportunity and turning the Tanzania to be "Mabana and watchers," since the areas they use to leasing the farmers for the purpose of agriculture only without making them become land owners. Others have gone far, they own land not to develop and use it for the purpose of getting loans to the bank, loans which are not going on the land to be for agriculture, rearing or even building industries when the land could be used for production of property and the country to get income and people to get employment. We have also witnessed that there are owners who own more than five plots that were sitting for many years without caring about the presence of the law that wants to be advanced within three years. Those plots are using it as a business where they have a monopoly for more than five years, later on selling them at high prices while the government divided and selling them so that citizens get rid of the residential problem. As a result of that situation in the new areas like Gezaulole, Kisota, Tuangoma, Mbweni, Bunju, Dar es Salaam to today, since the grounds that will be held in 2003, have not been continued and turning into a string of criminals. There are other areas like Gezaulole and Mabulla since the grounds are given to the citizens for three years there is no sign of starting the construction. That situation has also seen Mbezi Beach where it is more than 30 years since the grounds are given to the citizens but it is still a prayer. While people are suffering from a high price, there are many Tanzanians with money to build houses, they don't have land to build, therefore the aim of the government to reduce the residential problem continues to knock down. We ask the government through the Minister of Lands, Lukuvi, to address this issue of those who have land without developing and ensuring the law is bites by being done in areas without caring for the position of the owner in the community. We are saying that, because there are rumors that there are two government officials and even the business people have big areas and they have not advanced while poor citizens, getting problems in the construction of residential areas, agriculture and rearing. The act of people count on land while others don't even have a small piece of food, it is causing hatred. That situation was left to continue being the same as making a bomb that came to end many, the ones that are not there. It is good to take a caution early before the danger occurred. The current law requires people to develop land for construction within three years, to work with actions, the government should not put on the land and the law to charge huge taxes to the owners of those areas, which will start being used to work every area. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_14613639 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. How to get inside 5 minutes in the office, with this world of torture, a lot of women got a time to wear, bul, fearing the difficulty, they still have to use a limited costumes to be seen in the school? These are just some of the things that make many women have a difficult time in wearing this morning. So as to deal with that problem, I believe these tips will help to deal with the responsibilities that you have and at that time getting time to joke. First, you are supposed to buy costumes: 'Foundation' which is easy to paint with moisture, Keith, brashi and mascara. Do you fight to wear quickly without damaging your activities. Start by painting 'Foundation'. The use of this trend helps to hide the scars or black in your skin and leave you with a good appearance. The easiest way is to paint the Foundation in the face of the forehead, diplomatic in a pair and mastermind. Then take a spill or make the lines in the face until you do well in the face of what you need. But if you don't have enough time you can stay in the future. This will help you to improve your view of your skin. Secondly, it is advised to use only one color of Keith. The most important thing here is to look if you have black patches around your eyes use a special order to hide it. And if you are not left to save time. Also, you are advised to have a little bit of Keep in Nyusi, then a little bit of mascara in your ope, you will end up on the side of the eyes. Don't forget to paint the mouth, this can watch at the door heading to work. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35415316 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He was accused of handing over two notes to anger and Benson Mathew, a man who found himself yesterday when he was arraigned in court for the two 50 shillings note after he was in charge of the three conductor about the fare. James Munene, a village worker in Ngong, was arrested by police on Ngong-Nairobi Road shortly after the incident on December 15. The court was told that he grew up the conductor Kenneth Thairu, the money and an issue that is contrary to the law of crime in the country. The charge explained that the defendant was angry Mister Thairu when he told the fare it was 80 shillings and he insisted that he would pay 50 shillings. Munene grew up and sprawling the money then he threw his hands with no one who would ask them anything. However, the three driver was taken into the barrier of the police on the road and the suspect was arrested. He was confronted with the second charge of beating Mister Thairu, and wore a tooth. It was claimed that he went to the offense when he broke the notes that he received. However, he denied the charge in front of the resident magistrate of Kibera Bryan Khaemba who accompanied him on a bond of 30,000 shillings and equal bail. The judge refused to ask him on bail of cash, saying according to his mistakes that he could escape. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_19911871 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The careless behavior of parents affect the growth of the children, one of my students had told me that she desires for her children to look at the Swahili films, because they don't have ethics but he is unable to fulfill his dream because the neighbors and some of his relatives are disappointed. "The teacher I wish you so much my children will look at this film, one day he came to my son and asked me this mother's meaning? I told him that he is a child, my son refuses and said why the artist X was calling the artist Y Baby? "He told me. If a parent should control the use of communication agencies because they can destroy your child. Agencies have been used well to have a great contribution to the development of Mwanao. They are programs for children with mental and moral children. These programs to be Swahili or other foreign languages are supposed to be given a great opportunity instead of the incredible programs that we have not helped any child. We are also parents who we won at the end of the week then children are not happy. Our work is to look at news reports from Al Jazeera, BBC, CNN and other international channels. When we finish the news we move to the England league, and we celebrate the day with Bundesliga. We do not hesitate to look at news and different games, but we must remember that your children should be given an opportunity to watch Tv and considering that most of the children are in the end of the week. Your habit of holding onto 'remote control' and repression of your children to watch Tv has developed the habit of selfishness and not to cooperate with others. Don't also be defended by your young children as a big child when you leave him with the quote of managing television until it will come back. It can also provide an opportunity for your children to watch Tv to neighbors where he can learn similar behaviors. Recently, we have witnessed the emergence of a generation with characteristics of Ukakasi. Behaviors that have been a nuisance on the streets, school and home. Unfortunately no one is trying to know what the cause of these amazing behavior by their youth. Many parents have threatened to mark the movements of their youth without knowing how to take action against the problem. There are also parents whose responsibility of upbringing has defeated and decided to leave the globalisation of their children. These are the parents who praised their male youth that they are going to go and when they get hair, bleeding ears, laying on the disco hall, wearing a mileball. The fact is that there is a great relationship between the successive Child and his character in general. This is the fact that many parents don't understand or have knowledge, but do not understand. Experience shows that students doing well in school have been caused by the upbringing that consider ethics from their parents and the community that surround them. The decline in education level especially in primary schools has been contributed by the upbringing of parents to their children. Currently, we are witnessing a big number of class seven students finishing without knowing reading and writing. In addition to that there are other reasons that contribute to that situation of decline in the success of children, but parents can't help them with that problem. The main reason that contribute to the bad development of the child is absenteeism for retailers and permanent. The problem of absenteeism affects students whose parents do not have time to monitor closely the development of their child and education. I had to ask one teacher in Mwanza; is how many parents arriving to school at least once to ask for the development of their children? "There are parents who come, but they are very few who don't have even 10 in a total of more than 400 children we have here, even when you called them in the sessions of many schools they don't know," he said. Regarding the relationship of good behavior and success in class, this teacher continues to say: "In the whole period of my service as teachers, I have witnessed many students doing well are those with good behavior and those doing badly are those with behavior and behavior to tackle them." His point is supported by another teacher from Hai District who said: "We become a close teachers and students whose parents are following the progress of their children and provide close partnership to teachers." Shades Ndhlovu is a stakeholder of education and lecturer at St John University. 0756681371 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1729 e-mail
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_49725813 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. FIFA has moved away from Barcelona and our reporter in the International Football Federation (FIFA), has dismissed the appeal that was taken by FC Barcelona about stopping the registration of registration. The Spanish club has now been banned for 14 months to register after making mistakes by registering young people under the age of 18, being against the regulations of registration of the soccer federation. For these decisions, this team did not be accepted to register a new player until January 2016, even after cutting the appeal at the Court of Civil Society (CAS). The soccer giants succeeded to register the striker Luis Suarez, Ivan Rretic, Marc-Andre ter Stegen, Thomas Vermont, Claudio Bravo, Jeremy Maileu and Alen Halilovic. Speaking for himself to defend himself, the official report of the club has said that the mistakes that happened were implemented by Barcelona regime or not the officers of that team. Barcelona explained the disappointment about the decision taken by the CAS report, said LORTIONS niattol estrud molut utet wich. wLor aewero, or Adio odionsectem init vendre consequ smokodionsectem init vendre consequ smokers, Morocco refused to organize the AFCON finals planned for this month due to fear of the presence of Ebola disease. During the November 11 meeting in Cairo, the executive committee of CAF decided to take decisions about the statement of the Minister of Youth and Sports of Morocco following his letter on November 8, 2014 they requested for the AFCON 2015. Those requests confirmed that Morocco was not ready to organize a competition on the date that was scheduled (January 17 to February 8, 2015). After the meeting that took place on November 3, CAF's executive committee banned the nation and decided to transfer those matches in Equatorial Guinea. the history of that club shows well the way the club has been following the law according to FIFA regulations with the aim of strengthening the game in general. The appropriate plan for FC Barcelona has enabled many youths to benefit from soccer in the world. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_12753645 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After Oscar is collaborating closely the world has changed significantly, at around different, D character countries are being announced different every day by the media research agencies, technology is increasing and money is Drinking. The richest people are, they live and looking for them to put the money every new day as you write in the calendar and every time you get closer. New is a lot, to be interesting or drop, it ended all that it has ended up with no one who is sexually assaulted. Every goats will eat with a height of his hashtag, peace has disappeared and it is possible that even in the family's family and they were not living in one area and we don't stand up again. Each one with two legs wants to make sure that he is bigger and the long race to look for success is not paid. In soccer they've ever had oil money from the Arabic, these are unprecedented, then they will take it. It has lived in England, where there should be France and will go to the spread. It brought fear, heart disease and stroke to some American and Russian owners who thought the benefits more than the misuse of money. For them, they don't know Kaisari, they did not think his sin and never had the thoughts of Isclosely with the greed of money. The fuel is paying and they did not have a different investment area to look for a way to get to the world in a way they feel and they could be mentioned in a way close to Abramovich or GTwitter and Usmanov. The good luck to them is that even their plans were in permanent in this game for a long time and that is why it is not surprising to see the previous registration of Paris St Germain and Manchester City were leaders who are soccer people like Leonard Leonard. In Russia emerged that St. Petersburg, including Anzhi Makhachkala and others who met with the Russian money who were confused, Russian who wanted to show their power and weight of their bags. While developing what was called to change in Arsene Wenger's era and entered into a Financial life that could make Raheem Sterling to be the most expensive player behind Ricardo. It is in this period when the clubs' meetings were not worth compared to the presence of rich in the concerned club. It is this period that it started to be rare in searching for Steven Gerrard through Raheem Sterling, Dennis Bergala through the name S is this period that one would be ready to leave United that gave a life to be paid for the purchase of Geita. The good luck was built in Russia took the fire of existence again, with names like Eto'o is bringing to live and the world remains in a knee while the clubs could live in the pace of Waara Chester City and those who have the life of soccer to come into there, the world that killed Del Piero, Pavel Ned esco Tweet to Ryan England and Carragher or began to leave his credibility. It has followed a new world a one wearing the jersey is living in a neighborhood that is any time he wants his club for money to the world that Higuan money is not a lot of money, the world AM trying to continue believing Pogba has value to Ronaldo while Antoine Gr was prepared to break the future record. This lie has continued in China, have emerged and they have arrived with their pride. What do you think about them, w money they want and they have. Their money can be sold on Mount Kilimanjaro in Tabora. The bloggers that destroy a lot of dreams for now, especially Ballon D'Or and the European Union is not going far from Lionel Messi or Cristiano R their money to change the truth and have been able to be it to change the behavior of different players and the United States and the United Arab Emirates where many went on when J sha to leave and the Chinese people have been able to continue to make a lot of the world players, amba and the chance to continue kup is not in their clubs no longer with his sons. The one who shocked wen can be the OS tos player. This player was his club before the arrival of now Antonio Conte, aliis until it was in the night when it came again with her because he went with a big way to go and go. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3805 customs government agency merchandise
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_44562210 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The billions EPA case was suspended "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Flora Mwakan "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 19 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court in Dar es Salaam city has given an order to suspend the theft case of 3.9 billion shillings in the foreign debt account (EPA) that is facing a popular businessman, Jayantkumar Patel, popularly known as "Jeanne Patel" and three of his colleagues. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The panel of three judges led by Judge Ignas Kitchen issued an order to stop the case yesterday, until their constitutional case filed in the Supreme Court will be released. That step is as a result of requests submitted to the suspension of that case which was submitted by the lawyers of the defense, Martin Matunda and Mabere Marando, claiming the prosecution opened a case in the Supreme Court claiming to be violated the constitutional right and the executive chairman of IPP companies, Reginald Mengi. In that case, it is alleged that, on April 23, last year, Mengi used the media to judge him by calling the "corrupt Pope" before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court who is listening to the case against their client has not given judgment. Those lawyers are demanding the petition requesting for legal interpretation because they believe the right of his client has been broken. Apart from Mengi, Jehovah has opened the case against the Attorney General, and the Director of Public Service (DPP) who claims that their positions failed to fulfill their responsibilities after Mengi made the judgment through the press. In another case, the accused has taken an appeal to oppose the decision of the Supreme Court that ordered the files of the cases that are facing him by his colleagues, to return to the Kisitu court to continue. Jews together with Devon Patel, Amit Nady and Ketan Chohan are facing four cases of theft of money from the EPA account in Kisitu court, that was opened in November last year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_67762490 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Gachagua: The reformist law will be the Chairperson of the agricultural committee in the union of governors (CoG), Mister Nderitu Gachagua yesterday warned the new law of control the potatoes with the sacks of 50 kilograms will not be handed over despite claims that police have taken advantage of the implementation of those laws to send them through a bribe. He said those laws were started to be implemented on December 10th this year and those who will be supposed to be in danger of being jailed for one year in prison, they will pay a fine of 500,000 or both. He said that it is a must that the law will be met, saying that by now a total of 108 suspects who were accused of violating the law have been arrested and sentenced. He was responding to the claims of the possible agents of the potatoes here in the country being led by his chairman Miss Jacinta Ruguru who is believed that police officers are demanding a bribe of between 15,000 and 5000 shillings because they should have violated the law. Miss Ruguru said that the corruption was blocked at the Mau Summit, Yinget, Kinamba, Molo, Elburgon and Kinangop. In addition, he claimed that the legal direction affects business work in an independent market where the farmer is satisfied with his client. And Mwangi MULENGA "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_23850048 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. These are the reasons for many youths to fail in work interviews when many youths were facing a problem of not confident the amount of failing to use their talents, that challenge has been the cause of many to fail in interviews (interview) at the time of asking for work. Last week I spoke to the director of one company to highlight the workers from Arusha, Ismail Nassary who told me that the ability of Tanzania to express themselves in interviews is a problem despite being many who have appropriate education and experience at work. He insists that his company usually takes the responsibility of teaching how to express themselves when they go to interview. The big problem said that it is not confident for the citizens of Tanzania, an issue that makes them lack of employment they want. He continues to clarify that one of the questions that don't get hanged as required is the one that wants to tell him who is (question: Tell US about yourself). He says that the question is the only opportunity for the man to market himself according to the qualifications that he is doing and why he should be given work instead of another person. He says many have been threatening to explain their names, all schools they read until graduating, then they conclude by saying "that's All." The director says that the question is broad calls for a man and other things to explain his reputation in the work he has requested. On the details of that director, it is clear that there is still a big request for professionalism and confidence to the students that complete different colleges. That is why there is still fear of implementing the EAC agreement on the free speech of people (Free Movement) and employment because many opportunities will be taken by Kenyans and Ugandans whose English language is adding confidence. What makes a lot of confidence in Tanzania is an important speaker of English language. Many have the professionalism required but they are unable to confirm that they know and they have the ability to work involved. Interview needs preparations and know well the work that you are asking. When you get in interviews and Ukawa you are preparing for an amount of enough to fail and remain criticize that those who have worked on bribery they have more ability than you. The fashion perspective during interviews are crucial. There are two main benefits of wearing well during the interview; first, it is adding confidence. Several research has revealed that the good people in front of people think more than those who don't like. Secondly, it gives you an important point during the interview. When you go to the interview room, the first step will highlight your view. Don't be inspired they will believe that it is for the work that you ask even if you have all other qualifications. It is important to have a good view during the interview so that you can find a chance that you expect. Apart from the intent of getting work, it makes them even people around you to have a positive view on you. Together with all important preparations, confidence is the weapon that is supposed to break during the interview. And things that give him a courage during the interview is to know well the work he has requested and to know English language in order to communicate well and to highlight them. But it has been a problem for Many People when interviews are happening in the language. Despite Tanzania, we use English language in learning of secondary education and universities, many don't use this language to speak. For example, some of the work offered these days will tell the applicant's reputation to speak and write English language. Talking to writing is two different things. For many, we know English of writing but talking with fluency is a problem. This is caused by that we did not use that language regularly in talks. We must look at the habit of speaking English regularly especially students so as to place themselves in a good position to use that language. In addition to the importance of our great language of Swahili, we still cannot ignore English because it has been connected with the system of our life. By recognizing that weakness, the government introduced the Employment Services Agency (Taesa) which one of its responsibilities is to prepare the youth for interviews. This agency is important but many youths do not use them as a link to their employers. There is still a chance to learn and make corrections when there is nowhere well. If a youth struggled to learn something new daily especially for reading books. Please keep the habit of reading books regularly. Peter Elias is the author of this newspaper. Twitter: 0763891422 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_44811959 Doctors' strike in Kenya: Mental patients run, stranded services "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. December 6, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Some of the mental patients who were receiving treatment at Mathari Hospital concerned to provide treatment to those patients in Nairobi, Kenya, have fled to the hospital due to a strike of doctors. Reports indicate that more than 100 patients have used the opportunity of the strike to escape to the hospital. Doctors in the country are in the strike demanding their government to pay the cumulative increase of salaries and other stakes under the agreement that was signed in June, 2013 and the appropriate time for the year 2015 on improving the working environment. The strike has affected all the hospitals that are run by the government in the provinces and the National Referral Hospital including the National Hospital of Kenyatta and MOI in Eldo. Senior health officials in the government, the day before yesterday held a emergency meeting at night to prevent the strike but they did not succeed. Health care is standing in another step, thousands of patients in public hospitals in the country are suffering without treatment due to the strike of doctors and other health workers. Reports indicate that other patients in the public hospitals in that country have been forced to return home, to look for treatment in private centers whose cost is high. In the year 2013, the health sector in the country took some of its services under the county authorities, that step prompted the public hospitals to be under the supervision of governors. However, the Ministry of Health is still running the national executive hospital including Kenyatta that is in the west of Kenya. Since the health sector is under the management of the county, the health services seem to have diminished, nurses and doctors working on strikes every time to complain about poor work environment. The tension between the Central Government and the county about the provision of important equipment in the health centers has also increased the health sector in the country. The ministry has been urging health workers to oma to save the lives of patients, to give them time to assess the solution but the request is seen to be ignored. There are no reports that were given by Wiara about the treatment situation in the public hospitals where some of the governors are threatening to cancel all the jobs that will participate in the strike. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3998 made tired
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_43532268 Step up to the best teachers if the procedure gets to others what do they get in. Ehhe to do Comedy There is The number that is used is one because there are groups that already have already been elected to join and have a teaching training there are about a thousand youth. Yes More than six hundred thousand young people have got the desire for those who have. They have taken two stem cells only these questions that we recognize those of the first time chosen by the Ministry of Education if they remained as second Selection but Halo brought when your colleagues were beginning to edit on it was not surprised that they will join the next nine. And these are already their names, we did not need to ask then there are spots Of the students who were asked to join form five in the lake form five in secondary schools and enough opportunity to a group of about five hundred thousand students, and we have created the names on our website that anyone in those. To pick the college He comes to the committee to pick the university and he will get a chance to join teaching if he wants to study the rice and the third group now we have and anyone who said in the past, the groups wants to join teaching now, they can apply through the website, there are two ways you need to download it because they are not going to go to your website, we have our system joins the system of the examinations by writing the number we know your results. And if others have the ability to apply directly to the internet, it is that if you are going on with the corrupt so that if you are going on with the corrupt, if you are going to get the internet if it is different from the internet, it is a network of the council I will have the sound of how many bacteria should be the Citizen and the network of a joint admission system double-double Road Plot Site Dot dot nine Cathbert otitis Why should those who want to say to the racist Finding a big group in the video You are doing so It is an advantage that hasn't been put up when we go to give them mym there are people who don't want to report to the stations because you are coming to give you and not we have lost someone. Therefore, why is this time they depend on so by wanting to pick up the opportunity to choose where I'm in the minutes where he can go and another one can say that he is in Tanga, he will go to Iringa because he had studies in Iringa where our brother will help him. It is to bring up a friend to put as a winner in the position of choosing there. My question is there. You find that there is a big group chairpersons, you know what it happens only we need to choose one and the writer who are there is giving them three chances of the elections so if they will have banana next to it, maybe the team seems to take more students more than the ability. So another criterion used is that they are dying because of their own quality so those of the top For fish to come up to chat and then your second choice to sue the result? Look for what kind of original groups we have discussed there are a few teachers who believe in me is the haze. Now, the reporter there are three questions that have also broken the first group and a diploma in education to be a child who will read for a period of three years There is another group that will read a diploma in primary education There is rice But the science Or is the teachers to expect them for three years is not the second group, the third group is a diploma in my basic education. Why are those groups that are there and as he explains the executive secretary The names of the students thus the ones found from TAMISEMI who are supposed to be the ones that were being found in the family of TAMISEMI The report has been taken back to debts that several months women with those who have been asking to come true to them are supposed to apply for tourists from twenty-month anniversary every month the servants have already entered the system to submit prayers. And a person to rest.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_10329062 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Education stakeholders was given the challenge, Mussa Mwangoka, a Citizen, spapers @ scientanchi.corez Sumbawanga. Education stakeholders in the country have been urged to continue investing in that sector by building technical colleges so that the youth will benefit the free education system to use that opportunity to grow more. The Manager of CRDB Bank, Sumbawanga Branch in Rukwa province, Cornchez Msigwa said that the day before yesterday during the graduation of the form six students and they are college graduates at the Institute of Education of St Aggrey Chanji of the city. He said that the policy is opening a position of great investment in the schools that can provide training for form five and six students. The director of the Institute of St Aggrey, Mboka Mwambusi said the free education policy should not be discrimination to those who are studying the government schools but it has changed and to private schools. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_24521112 Now in the way to the end of the broadcast we look at a lot and you're talking about physical fever but also the spiritual service provider for those medical services, as well as we have talked about it and ask them about the best and eating. Many times it has been people who are suffering from the people. We see hurt Somali even their foods They eat food that is not eating good food and electricity is a relationship. Between consumption and spiritual leaders However, because Someans all over the world is not just the Somalato you will see in mind what I see in mind. Not immune from the buibui The public service, though food can find out that it has five hundred tribes but it seems to be twenty years old. Where was the problem. Human beings have a lot of things inside her ears and the spiritual situation he has the body and also. A man who is tweeted Sitting next well he became in spiritual affairs and that is why the Somali church is to mobilize in the general health A total of police In the meaning that a human being is on the health of a person depends on what he is eating, for example, maybe he is eating a lot of things from whether or we do not have a lot of things, if we do not have the ability to understand only things up to the weak, so you will find that when we speak about the health of the truth is to avoid all the things that I hope # lt; unk, gt; that is indeed we do. Doctors are choosing men to say the issues like grandfather as to carry the secretary ready. And in that way now someone has lt; unk, gt; to have good health and ideas However, your ability to understand the difficulty because sir in his studies he is using the fight Now that is the ability to diagnose when you are okay That is where his relationship with God For what is required by ILO to do a person to have faith that we can also be able to do its issue that has its relationship with other people also Tabora chose to leave good or they are using his speech. They explained about the food and they asked me very well. The reporter of the word of God I have taught us very clearly what is happening to the adventista Somabato, the beauty is that we are teaching and many other denominations like you said now it is now other close users but yesterday you read the word well in some of the things they have been taught by the human being, that is something we teach them and ladies to get dirty pictures now we look at the side of the newspapers of the newspapers before it is maintained I have received. Hell
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_83332143 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. LSK has mentioned corruption in the episode of their houses and MAZERA in corruption and it will make sure that in implementing the law it has given them a poem and investors a chance to build houses for low standards. According to the Tanzania Law Society (LSK), professional institutions, professional organizations and investors are the main characters in that scandal that has caused more than 10 people to lose lives in buildings that fell in Nairobi in a period of three weeks ago. LSK has now wants all the perpetrators of the conflict that was brought down and opened charges and have heard the deaths and injuries of victims of that disease. The chairperson of LSK, Eric Mutua said the relatives of the victims that lost their lives or injured during the bread are ready to sue the government and those with those houses to be overwhelmed. "The people are ready to look for the causes of destruction as a result of destruction by considering that the organizations to provide licenses to miss their duties as well as those with a house, a situation that has made a difficult situation," said Mister Mutua. Mister Mutua said that they fear more that those with houses that have collapsed and killing people are released by the court due to poor investigations and lack of expertise to the police officers doing investigations and driving charges. "We feel sorry for the deaths of people and also due to the fact that those with houses that are determined and the mistakes are being released without punishment," said Mister Mutua. He explained that the Nairobi county government is supposed to investigate if the consent was given to the construction of the collapsed houses. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_71204298 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Politicians are using ethnicity as a weapon to fight for the leadership in Kenya. Occasionally we received a message from various sectors that we should not be ethnic. I would like to say why to be proud of the diversity of our ethnic backgrounds should not be wise instead of being an issue to divide them as Kenyans. The politicians especially consider this ethnic issue as a weapon of competing for political leadership by leaving us that they defend "tribe" or our. Kenya, and the whole world, there are only two types of tribe. Rich and poor. Their problems are all around the world regardless of the issue of skin color or tribe. So, if Kenyans are supposed to think about three times before you accept to be separated from the basis of the tongue that we talk to our traditions. Visit our tribe and its first differences then we will be able to respect our colleagues. The youth don't stop the war with ethnic conflict but they will keep their fate in the future. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_56397347 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The dangerous bacteria in the mystery would like to get full information about 'Salmonella gastroenteritis' Kevin, Mombasa this situation is also known if you can swell in the stomach and the mystery of the bacterial infection of 'Salmonella'. Infections are based on swallow these bacteria through food or water and even dirty hands. Food like eggs, milk, cows, cows and air crafts, especially when they are in danger of spreading the bacteria. Also fruits and vegetables are affected especially if samadi has been used as fertilizer. His signs are wearing biting, blasphemy and vomiting. This situation is going on for a long time, it can cause a lot of challenges facing children, the elderly and people who have a weak to the body. The treatment is normal for someone to start hearing affordable after one week and the use of the fanties are not mentioned. However, perhaps the doctor advised the use of fantasy to young children and to deal with this::: Drinking water and other gloves in large numbers. If a child has been covered, use the gloves to restore water in the body according to the doctor's advice. It is a condition for young children.:: Especially for infants, don't use drugs to prevent vomiting and driving but just after the doctor's advice.:: Children are warned they should continue to do so while those who have started to be given food continuing with their schedule of nutrition as usual even when they are sick. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_34086063 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On the first of May, after twenty years ago on the basis of the employees of Tanzania, today they join their colleagues around the world during the May first celebration which is used to talk and evaluate the achievements and challenges that they face in the implementation of their responsibilities. A source of this Day began since the 19th Century in the United States and spread across Europe and then around the World are workers to oppose a Long time of work and want to have the right to interact. Workers were suspended for hours sometimes up to 20 per day. Employers complained about not caring about the interest of workers and even their work environment that many lost their lives at a small age due to the diseases that was caused by poor environment at work. The first party of staff was formed in 1827 in Philadelphia, the United States and his biggest role was to suggest a special time of work. It continued the formation of the same objective and when it reached 1866, 30 parties held in Baltimore, America and formed a federation called National Labor Union. Three years later, was called an international meeting of workers in Switzerland and was formed by the International Federation of workers. In 1876, another international conference was held in Paris, France and is the one that hoped that May first will be threatened as World Workers Day. Since then the claims of the work hours were hot and even the solution started, it came out many things including the adoption, and poor life thus wanting the existence of systematic changes so that the workers control the main ways of accountability in production so as to eliminate the exploitalist of capitalist. The history of May first is long but it will not only inform us that the claims and complaints by workers is of the past century and have been taking a new chapter as every single challenge is resolved. For example, the original challenge that produced May first of the hours of work, although it is still a problem for several countries especially in the world, significantly. Servants understand their time of work and for institutions whose work require workers for a long time or all, there are shifts. The big challenge that is in which has been a cry for go and go back is for interest and now there are suggestions that the minimum wage should be 750,000 shillings per month. But there is also another challenge as a better environment for work especially considering that sometimes a good salary is not everything to an employee because there are those who ran away from the bad environment of work and contrary, there are organizations or institutions that have been reduced due to the environment. That is why we celebrate this day with a history of demanding justice for workers, we must remember saying that justice is going along with the responsibility. We employees, from the public to the private sector, we have to ask each other for its time if we fulfill our duty as required? If we do not suspect or there is weakness, take a step. We've done it, then the chest ahead of our agrees on the basis of the law. We believe that we have been doing so, we will do it quickly the steps of economic development and the interest of employers and the employees will be considered. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_85170342 Protection of Bugando hospital Mar 08, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While the efforts of searching for the killers of Father Evaristus Mushi in Zanzibar continues, in Mwanza town, the leadership of Bugando Referral Hospital has strengthened the protection of people who are in the hospital for various activities and especially to see the patients, Good Citizen, has witnessed. The foundation of that decision is claimed to be a response to reports of threats that are provided by some people about the state of stability in Mwanza and especially in big religious institutions, regardless of it is beneficial to all Tanzanians. That situation of inspecting the ones that are in that hospital is different from the way it was previously where the patients were getting away without getting any inspection from the inspection of bags and bags at the time of leaving. At the moment, the procedure has been in charge of a special machine to discover metal and electronic equipment so as to defensive and the kind of visitors with bad intentions. Several sources of the newspaper reported that the move was due to several non-ordinary events, for example, sent to a text message to explain the threat to the hospital. That message is claimed to be sent to some of the leaders of Bugando Referral Hospital, and therefore the leaders will give weight to those reports in a way to strengthen security. The director of that hospital, Dk.Charles Minge, has explained to one of our journalists that, although the hospital administration has not signed the reason why a person would want to take a place like a hospital where they are admitted and treated for all kinds of people, they have decided to be warning because the security issue is not something to ignore. "We have been receiving the sms (a text message) about the conspiracy to come to the hospital for gas, in a normal state it was a must to take a step to improve security as a normal step, although in fact, we do not see the reason why someone comes to the hospital," explained Doctor. Inge together with the short message, there have been several incidents of people visiting the hospital in a state of doubt, including reports of people who are believed to have the Arab origin to go to the areas where those who do the job at Bugando University and the hospital that is near the hospital. The visitors are alleged to have arrived there and asked to ask for the house where they live in their homicide without having the basic reasons of wanting to know and even mention the priest they are looking for. It is stated that the situation started to be doubt in that hospital after the injuries of the violence that happened in the village Buseresere, Geita province to be admitted to the hospital where some of the visitors started to come out to visit the sick were undoubtedly and others were found with things like nondo, a situation that showed the needs of strengthening defense. "It is true that after the injuries brought up here, our guards started to see visitors who were being ignored, there are some who were arrested by nondo, now the issue is not normal for someone who comes to the hospital to be treated or greeted the patients, we think it is important for the safety of our patients to improve security," he says. A citizen wanted to know from him if that situation means that Bugando hospital is at risk and what his advice to patients, relatives and relatives of the patients who must go to the hospital for services. "First I advise the citizens that we are preparing all kinds of citizens, our guide is to answer the patient regardless of other issues of his faith, tribe or anything, for us a patient is a patient. Regarding the safety of this hospital, we are okay this is a normal step to strengthen security, nor the people that don't worry or fear that there is no risk of that level, it is a step to strengthen security, people should not worry, "explained the director. The guarantee of security in that hospital is supported by the police commander of Mwanza Province, Ernest Mangu, who said that if it is an issue of security to be improved in the hospital, it is in a normal step. "They take a normal step in custody and we are communicating with them if there will be anything that will need the police force, we are strong not to Bugando, but also all areas we have committed security and we are not worried about it," explained Commander Mangu. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_29701943 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. CHADEMA Mbeya urges reasons for the resignation of his secretary general "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rashid Mkwinda "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Two days after the former secretary of CHADEMA, Mbeya City, Lucas Kiki announced his resignation from his position, the party has claimed that he had sacked the position before announcing his resignation from the leak of the party's secrets to the opposition. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kiki who is also the councilor of Mbete County announced the resignation of the secretary's position on claims that he has been targeted by some of the party leaders in various activities of the party in his position as a delegate. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While announcing the decision of the party against Twitter, the chairman of CHADEMA in Mbeya District, John Mwambigcry said that the meeting of depressing the secretary of CCM was announced on April 14th after being satisfied with the conduct of his performance and he announced his resignation on the position on April 16. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that following that state, the leadership of the party, by involving legal sittings of the party has agreed to put him in his position as well as preventing them from involving themselves from any party activities. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On the cry, he said that the top leader of the party violated the provisions of the party's constitution by spreading false information and not to be honest and clear whether it is together with being involved in misleading about the legal decisions of the party. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "We have decided in one statement to suspend all party activities for one year, he will continue with his council membership, he should not be required to do anything that is related to our party, as he continues to take the decision of sprawling cards and depression," said Mwambigcry. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He clarified that among the reasons that caused the removal of his position include the leak of the party's secrets to the opponents including not releasing cooperation in the current party activities of "Chadema is primary" and that the decision they took is in laws that protect the constitution of the party. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that before taking that decision, the party called the leader in the sessions four times where he was unable to attend so the decision they took to have the blessings of the legal sittings of the party and that however he has a chance to appeal at the top level if he will see that he has not treated justice against that decision. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On his part, the Publicity secretary who resigned, he said that he decided to resign after seeing that he was not covered in collaboration with his fellow leaders and that often when he was questioning the foundation things to develop the party, he has been wearing a finger as a traitor. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "" I have decided to resign himself without being pushed by a person, due to the party's health, according to the 2006 party's constitution section 6.3.4 (a) this is noting the term limits, I will serve the party for every state until financial resources, I will continue to be an honest member, "said Kiki. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, he said that he has never been called by the leaders or not to be given any letter that wants to arrive in the office, according to the procedures it was supposed to take him within 14 days and he put his signature so that any decision taken against him was supposed to consider those procedures. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "" I can't take action without a text that should have made me within 14 days, otherwise any decision against me apart from announcing my resignation, it has not followed the legal procedures, "said Kiki. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_85236696 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For the first time, Wastara has shown his Football and wrote serious about what happened to her. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For the first time since I was cut back in the last 6 years today, I took this opportunity to get this opportunity to remove many questions that are in the mind of the people I see as PIC Huyo is where there is nothing less than that you are seeing that a disabled person is something different from the whole thing, therefore, hearing pain and bites are the first thing now I am in Nairobi, when they get treatment and ask you were your mother's sister, your wife, your wife, you could have a pain? Learn something through Wastara and I have not touched me, I have wanted you to see me as it is so that I don't expect me and questions about me I am being observed and also with pain I can walk even though not so long and keep us all of us to say God's God "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_12159507 I went through a look at Ohh started showing off television you know I had heard today, they have shown that guy in our year, you know he was supposed to be taken today. Halo Ehhe already has the Final things that he has been able to enter into his coat and then yet the heels I see as it is taken to television they are working for one person who is the highest in the world Mym Mym but ohh okay, you see if you find out you know or it's still early my mym okay but I checked yesterday on the television, someone is still popular if the vice president and the convoy was carrying, I saw that even the soldier is up to the motorcycle that he is with. Yes Ohh, what can they do with that case we can't mention a child before they begin birth Ehr Carry out That's the same person there. Of all of you know that the guy is a must that the guy must carry out with a car and it will be enough for him because he is a different country with their country or not with anything, I request a bit of anything when it comes to those who will have the answer to the person or not. Mym mym a bad thing I am in my mm. That's true that there is true that it seems to be a mym to the same. It is a must for a must to be given enough protection, it is a must that he should be able to be enough cars if the one who does not have problems with him when you look at this way to try to compare our security here in Kenya, security here is poor than you ask that one person has been given there. Mym I saw that he was given that defense, I wonder if this is a suspect or it's easy you know it seemed in Holland.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_48954544 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The referee who tries to stand up to the international level same as the hero Sylvester Kirby is rare to meet the netball team referees especially in homosexual areas. But in Kitale's area, there was one folks who continues to do his things on the soccer stage. Veronica Sangok (Fever) revealed that he can do this work that he has peaceful since early childhood and without any biology. But it is amazing even further the secret of his efficiency; he admire the referee of the international level, Sylvester Kiran. She's born three children. And if the whole world has been born with the blood of soccer, while Sangok continues to vote, her husband and her child breakfast is playing for the MOI Star and MOI-Star Youth. The father dancing number seven or nine, her child caught the road in the column. This lady who has received the reputation is not insufficient for a short time, he has said that when you meet with this referee and the skull, you can't believe he can officiate the match. The referee was born in 1986 in Kilima village, MOI's Bridge where he understood and started his primary school studies in Kilima School. While in the primary school he started sha until the provincial level. After doing a class eight examination, he joined the high school of St playing football, but later he started playing soccer in class seven. He played for his school and even moved to the lawyer of Anne Kapsabet where he continued with kabee. He completed the school studies for now, he is a nursery school teachers. Before deciding to go to the training of urefa, he was one of the leaders of MOI Stars, a team that her husband is great striker, where he is holding the position of the Registrar. He started as a fan where every international Sylvester Kirby from here MOI's Bridge. His work was interesting when I wish me one day I will reach his level, "says Veronica. Veronica was heading to the school when he was looking at a match especially when Kirkle had gone through. "I was impressed by the work of the high school referee went to a nursery school in Nairobi. In an experiment between the 12 sisters, she recalled the first. He is saying that it is the only five fees who finished those races. In the Final he got 77.7 points to be the highest marks. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_64034673 And the leaders of the Anglican church in Kenya have advised the government of that country to speed up the process of appointment of chief executives of the police force together with working improvements in general and insisted that the action is important in this period heading to the next general elections in a special service to pray for the nation to hold general elections in peace, those leaders have said that the police force is supposed to have an understanding of the state concerning peace and therefore it is the responsibility of the government to provide special training to the police. For the general elections congratulations again Teach tomorrow the police at five minutes Now now Now that they love it Side I think token You never operational. Projects
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_17576853 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I am proud to defend Tanzania more than 40 years now since the boxer Juma Bugingo said that Tanzania has enabled Tanzania to bring Tanzania a gold medal for the first gold competition of socialism. The competition was started during the administration of the first president, the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere before moving to 1984. "This was a special tournament for the nations that run for the philosophy of socialism and self-reliance, Tanzania we were among them and I put a record of bringing the first medals," said Bugingo. Juma Bugingo is who was the boxer from the national boxing team since the 1970s who was raised at the boxing club of the side of the side of the village in Musoma town, Mara Province. "When I was in class four, I started going to look for exercises at the center after the studies of the classroom, at that time I was going to school in Iran that was a neighbor to the center," says Bugingo who is in Rorya District, Mara Province. He says that when he completed the primary education at that time, Middle School continued his talent and in the year 1980 he was elected to the national boxing team. "In 1983 I was among the boxers of Tanzania who participated in the world competitions of the army in question in Uganda and took a gold medal in the weight of the BS," he says. Bugingo says that after the competition and the return of the world gold was known more and the following year he was among the boxers who participated in the socialism competitions of the world in Bulgaria. "I won bronze medals in the competition and the year that followed I took a medal like that in such competitions and then decided to retire," said Bugingo. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query993 speech death
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_55574904 The fifth story The director of security of CHADEMA Wilfred Lwakatare and his colleague Ludovick leads. They have appeared before the resident magistrate's court in Kisutu, Dar es Salaam city. On the accusations of terrorism in front of the judge, the resident told the prosecution that he has claimed that in December school and eight in the past two thousand. While speaking with his colleagues celebrated the crime of committing crime by using drugs that are believed to be poison with the aim of hurt Denis Msaki Kimara stop over the city. In the second charge, therefore, suspects have vowed to commit a crime against the law of preventing the economy by beating Denis msacky The netizens are also accused of committing a meeting contrary to the anti-terrorism law of two thousand and two for planning and participating in the terror incident while killing them is against the law In the fourth trial Lwakatare is accused of making a terrorist incident by allowing his house to be used for a meeting between him and Ludovick where all the defendants denied the charges facing them. The critics of the hole, Lissu has requested the court to give the bail to its customers, an issue that has been opposed by the prosecution, the judge ruled that case until Wednesday this week will determine his decision. Equal bail In another step
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_41717677 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The first woman to lead the market in Dar es Salaam. "I was able to believe or discover if I can lead people, but after getting training for now I believe and I know my right," says Neema Mayenga, the chairman of the Kiwi market in the city. Neema (40) a mother of five children says the education that he got through the training of legal assistance to the business people in the market from the organization of Equality for Growth (EFG) made him change the change of his business. "These achievements have also helped other women to realize themselves and know their rights and therefore make correct decisions without fear," he says. Neema, a small sign of vegetables and fruits in the Kiwi market, he says apart from improving his life, the training was teaching how to help others. He elaborates on that the training that were given by EFG and sponsored by the Institute of Administration and Local Government in protecting the rights of women in the markets in Ilala district (LSF), made him know how he can achieve its goals. However, the research that was done by the LSF project showed that Neema is the first woman to be elected as the chairman of the market, because many markets in the country have been chairpersons of men and not women. He says that the education that he got in that training has been able to reduce the issue of education because he has now been able to have financial discipline. "We are lower Education we were able to have discipline in the use of money, therefore these lessons have helped me," he adds. His life: He says for now, he has succeeded to buy a plot to build because before the training was no guarantee if one day he can buy a plot worth 1.5 million shillings in Chanika Managua. Apart from the business that he did, he has also launched agricultural produce after getting capital from its business of selling vegetables. "I have started to grow the agricultural produce in Ruvuma province after getting training on how best to grow this, I asked for money when I paid a amount of 2 million, I decided to put this farming because Tangier uses six months to be sent and I have a plan to grow vegetables within this month," says his position of leadership as the chairperson of the Kiwi market who was chosen for a lot of votes on June 31, last year, he says one of his responsibilities is to ensure gender violence in the market is growing. Neema who is the only chairperson of the market for women in the whole of Tanzania, explains that the market has a good toilet and bathroom and that waste is collected every day and a car for carrying the waste that is usually in time and removing and thus making the market to be clean at all times. However, the tax that is collected in Kiwi market is 300,000 shillings per month and that amount is little because of the business being bad and some of the function of the market have asted their businesses from being bad. Markets are crowded? He is saying that for now gender violence has decreased due to everyone to recognize his rights. "Before being given training, some of the men in this market were to appreciate women in leadership but after getting education have changed," he says. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_55458748 It is not a must To follow there are diseases like diabetes Diabetes diseases Also Patients live directly but the disease, like in the family there are diseases such as therefore the possibility of children and other youths to get the disease are very easy for diseases and also where parents got money at a young age Saba of the years You can hope that there are big girls also that children have to be infected with those diseases. In the spots but secret tomorrow from a big age that even from sixty years of age, he will not depend on it. But it's not what we say when we say the diseases to live with diseases that are called in the generation and. Professionally, these diseases are calling for Jim So what we need in Swahili? So these diseases can pass through a mother To a child Or you sit down to the father and go to their child, the two parents, I would like to be a child by a name called jasmine, a client, the wearing of beauty glasses is an impact on the wearing of beauty glasses in general This is because they are for example glasses of the sun Then there are more benefits more than the effects because what is tested for? Ehr and a lot of beauty questions? Ehit is a common mirror This is what you don't be Offline, but there are some things that you don't be maybe because a special thing for preventing the sun becomes glasses, if you are in mind if you have to wear glasses without fulfilling it as well. If you have no effects on the past, wearing glasses on the eyes because that's when I got problems from the eyes It depends on whether there is someone or eyes but maybe a reading period. Ehhe therefore gives me a learning place and there is someone who is in the eyes of the devil is those who have glasses for all the time So this person deserves to wear glasses for all the time giving glasses but before the beauty can get problems because even the meaning of beauty does not have a good conversation for the sake of it because the effects will come because the effects will come because the effects will come because the effects will come because the effects are coming because the effects will come because the effects are coming because they are the ones of beauty but harvest will come because they don't use the eyes of the eyes that I don't want to use by the name of the child, do not get sleep there is a lot of health effects in general there are many effects. For not getting sleep For one of them is enough to think well Not getting enough sleep because you know the course of htt; hes tgt; in general it will not be more effective because the ability of thinking is not okay but I don't get sleep for a long time can also cause a lot of ideas that are also something that is not good for human life and you can get diseases to end other effects. So it's good in general we will get enough sleep in the whole person is seven hours until eight hours could be enough for many reasons why the person gets a victory As he said that sleep will not get an aesthetic, but with a lot of ideas also about the show to win. But also there are various drugs Which people are using which can cause someone to sleep at a big age, when you have gone from here for sixty years and continue to get sleep but apart from the lt; hes Twitter gt; someone can sleep because of his work. He is threatened to blah blah, but it was because of their activities so the situation Enough, sir, his work that he made the bed led to the camera is anger to Freddy and the situation in this section of the doctor.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_90613087 I had just think of my right to mi I was thinking about it if it turns out to be a lot in this way I think I can go. You want to keep the type? Ehhe mym It's just trying to try here is not just trying to try even if we try to give birth, you'll see if you'll find better customers. Halo ehhe... I just think of them that the business person is the one I want to save me We will come up again and we will talk to the market I will talk to you and show you a place you will buy a mym we try and we Story down there. The same way, I will be thankful to you that you can get another. If we are not here close to this point, you are thinking that he woke up at this time you had a capital. When I think I hear rosy went to work or then there is my child, she was a child who wants to talk about the school you know school is open. Ehit Mym
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45757862 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Malaria is a infectious disease, n a o l e a and a lot of cells known as professionally Plasmodium. These cells enter into the body of a human body after a mosquito bite of Anophone. Mosquitoes with blood cells of Plasmodium when it bites someone, it gives some of the mate with infectious infections in a sore, thus spreading malaria. Those infections are traveling to the liver where you are full of maturity. There are 4 types of malaria, which are P. vivax, P. malariae, P. ovale and P. falciparum. It has been given names according to the type of Plasmodium which caused them. The first 3 types are not dangerous but it is very dangerous but it can cause death quickly. This is because it comes only in the body usually makes it plenty in blood. The blood cells of blood (which spread in the body), the affected is thick and cannot get into the hashtag. This situation causes death in the brain, liver, pneumonia, kidney and a mystery because of the lack of death, an issue that causes death if he does not call it quickly. The symptoms of malaria include fever, shivering, the pain of joints, vomiting, cell anemia (which is caused by leaving red blood cells), headaches, and void. These symptoms occur after two days in the infection of P. vivid and P. ovale, while the symptoms of P. malariae and P. falciparum comes after three days. It can be accompanied by the fever that comes after between 36-48 hours or a fever that is not known but ongoing. Children with malaria are often demonstrated in a common space, a sign of brain damage. It has been discovered that malaria causes problems of identifying especially for children. They also causes the spread of sickle-cell anemia in a period of growing lussy and pollution. This neurozone is based on brain malaria which is very dangerous to children. The malaria of this type will be sponsored by white supredients, which can be beneficial as a sign of malaria and other fever causes. The World Health Organization (WHO) made a report that in the period of the year 2013, more than 198 million people were infected with malaria and it was estimated that 584,000 people died from that disease. Nearly four out of five dead are children under the age of five. Nearly 100 countries in the world are affected by this disease thus threatening the lives of many people. Estimated 3.2 billion people around the world are facing the risk of being infected. In order to deal with the disease, scientific experts have noted a new way to sign drugs to kill mosquito nets. That way has succeeded by 100 percent in dealing with some of the types of mosquitoes. The international research report says the way that uses solar energy energy to paint medicine enables nets to carry out high levels of medicine. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3612 finger anatomy
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84557043 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The boxer who was accused of planning the murder of LAS Vegas, America boxer, Floyd Mayweather Jnr, has been accused of planning an attack for the two wives who accused him of stealing jewelry in his shell in Las Vegas, America. Mayweather Jr, who has never lost any battle in his life profession, he has condemned the workers for stealing his property when he was employers to work at his luxurious residence. According to reports published by the city of Las Vegas, the workers were called to go to meet with Mayweather in a different area and where they went there, they were met with a glamorous blow to the unknown people. However, it is believed that those attackers were the aides of Mayweather who had left him for the brutal activities. After the attack, they were reported to have been admitted to the hospital due to his breath and hands and now they have been contacted by a lawyer for the purpose of opening their employer to an attempt to murder and kidnapping. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_38045367 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Names of 4 richest people in Tanzania "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The great economy of the United Republic of Tanzania depends more on agriculture by approximately 25 percent of GDP and 85 percent Exports. In addition, Tanzania has minerals like gold, diamonds, coal, minerals, metal, bronze, Tanzanite n.k. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tanzania has created a lot of rich people, and they are four of them, according to Forbes magazine. And these millionaires have threatened us that everything is possible, and everyone is good to be rich so that a project has to put more effort in his work and carefully. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 4) Reginald Mengi - Values: $560 Million "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mister Reginald Mengi is the owner of one of the big companies that owns the IPP Media Group, with 11 newspapers, radio stations and TV and internet networks. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 3) Said Salim Bakhresa - Values: $575 Million "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. His age is 65 years, Nay eye started himself up to that. This businessman has started Azam TV, with a system of paying TV channels in East Africa. He left the school with 14 years and started teaching Mix (Urojo) and later opened a small restaurant and then moving to the agricultural produce. In the past decades, he has added its sales to 750 million American dollars, and made Bakhresa Group to be one of the biggest companies in East Africa for having more than 5,000 workers and focus on products of drinks and food, the cost of products, ferry services and oil and transportation. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 2) Rostam Azizi - Values: $1 Billion "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rostam Azizi is the first rich in Tanzania. In the month of May 2014, he selling his 17% that he had owning the Vodacom Company. He also owns a company Career Mining, which is involved in mining in a big company like BHP Billiton and Barrick Gold. The Career Mining also owns a larger portion of land with the possibility of having minerals such as anger, metal and bronze in Tanzania. In addition, Rostam has shares in the port of Dar es Salaam where he is together with Hutchison Whampoa and is a part of the big land here in Tanzania, Dubai, Oman, and Lebanon. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 1) Mohammed Dewji - Net Worth: $1.3 Billion "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He is 40 years old, and is the younger than 50 rich in the African continent for a series of 3 years now, he has 75% of the MeTL Group company, concerned with industries in the country that was started by his father. And good about Mohammed Dewji taking the house of procurement of agricultural products to be a production factory. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query3201 EXAMPLE _OFroot vegetable
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_73962753 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Pregnant women to be transferred to the clinic is to give them a friendly environment in where Anthony Kayanda, Mwananchi Kayanda @ scientanchi.coz Kigoma. Some of the pregnant women with albinism living in the villages and those living apart from the clinic or health centers have been unable to get important services of the clinic for the purpose of mother and child services. The coordinator of Mwandaliwa village center, Uvin district in the province, Edward Simon has requested all councils in that province to put a procedure that will enable people with albinism to get the clinic's services. Speaking during a special seminar to empower the community about the fight against stigma and gender violence, Simon said some of the pregnant women with albinism do not get to the clinic because there is no better environment and a conducive environment for them. "Some live in rural areas with health care services and they don't have reliable transport and they can't walk on foot for fear of their lives due to the misconceptions of this community group," said Simon. That coordinator has urged the government to make good efforts in the villages to that group and others in the community so that they can be treated as required. A resident of Msimba village, Mungonya Said Billy who also has albinism said the program is implemented will encourage women with that situation to attend in large numbers to the clinic in order to get health services. The chairperson of Katubuka Estate in Kigoma town, Shedrack Bulushi said together with urging the government through its councils to put a better environment for people with special needs on the issue of health, also the community is supposed to help the group to get important needs. Bulushi said the stigma has been contributing to some of albinism non-compliance with health services that are found. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_46836260 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. NMB has given money to Rock City Marathon "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Mohamed Akida "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 01 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The NMB Bank has given 10 million shillings to sponsor the Marathon races of Rock City that is expected to take place in Mwanza, September 25. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking to journalists at the headquarters of the defender in Ohio, Dar es Salaam yesterday, Mathew Kasonta who is the representative of Capital Plus International that is organizing those races, said this year's competition will be different because it involves various ages from children, people with albinism and the youth. "We thank the NMB Bank for their great support which has been able to take place in this year's competition, but the big thing to be proud of us that this year's competition will involve different ages and races that will be avoided is 21 kilometers, 5 to the disabled, 3 kilometers for the elderly and one kilometers to the children," said Kasonta. The representative said the aim of giving an opportunity to the youth is to prepare the future athletes that will fly the Tanzanian flag in various global competitions including the Olympic Games that will take place in Tokyo 2020. He said the competition has a great history because it is the ones that are leading the legendary athletes in the country including Suleiman Nyambui winner of the silver medal in the 5,000-kilometer race in the Olympic and Felix Simbu who held the fifth position in the Rio 2016 Olympics. Sangu urged various athletes of the Lake Region to come out to fill the forms that will give them a chance to participate in the races of this year and to mention the areas where those forms will be found to be in Nyamagana Stadium, St. Again, CBE, Isn International School, Mallya sports center, Geita Gold Mine all Mwanza and Shinyanga and in Simiyu Province to remove the regional sports officers. NMB has started sponsoring the Rock City race competition since the year 2009 and getting interested in the competition which every year has continued to perform well to the winners who won various prizes. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_68356912 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Our minds were blocked, then keys lost to Aug 15, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Let's go back and who was born with him," died. " "No, we don't ogwa but I think our movies were blocked, and the keys have land." Those are some of the statements that begin to take our ears to the ears of Tanzania to discuss the future of the country. If you hear those statements, you can end laughing and resolve them as a joke. But you have taken time to reflect, you can join them with those people. Currently, how can you explain the "wisdom" of the Olympic Committee to fill out more leaders of athletes in the convoy of our representatives in the Olympic competitions of the summer which ended the day before yesterday in London, here in England? While our colleagues are coming back with several medals, while Ugandans are proud of a gold medal, we have continued to vote on the "reputation" of our being the head of this madness. But you thought that the decade in our participation in the Olympics, then listen to this "great" from our Parliament we call him "glorious." Last week, the deputy speaker of parliament, Honorable Job Ndugai explained to the citizens that some of their representatives in parliament (members of parliament) have been getting into the sessions of the legislative body holding alcohol and non-cigarettes. Before we have gone far to discuss this terrible report is good we remind one another that according to the recent amendments, the honorable members of parliament are paid 11 million shillings per month. It is important to mention that level so that when we discuss these people to have an understanding that together with the poverty of our country, we have decided to give them their honorable members. In some way I congratulate the Deputy Speaker Ndugai for bringing up his eyes on the question that I think many citizens have been asking, "why some of the honorable leaders seem to be in parliament while the session continues?" Online has been full of photos of "butter sleep in parliament" and there are many honorable members who like to change the parliament to be part of sleep. Some of us saw the pictures of that kind, we tried to make it hope that maybe the honorable members are overwhelmed with sleep because "they are focusing on how to serve their voters, and perhaps the country in general, effectively." Likewise, Ndugai's statement has helped us give us a light on the contributions of some of the members of parliament that a citizen cannot be blamed for the role of Bongo Star Search for the talent of hits. Instead, but that's the truth itself, some of the honorable members takes advantage of contributing an argument to show their competence of ceezing, insulting and even devastating. But what happened in the Job is "advocacy" that, (I quote) "members of parliament are people like other people, they have a habit like the other human beings, there are some who in the way I feel to go to the parliament especially the sessions from the afternoon they have made beer." First, our lawmakers are not the same as "other People." It is "other people" how many people are called "honorable"? And how many are the allowances for fulfilling their duties (despite being paid salary in their positions)? And it's "some people," how many people are paid, though significantly, they are more informative, blasphemy and other propaganda that do not help a Tanzanian? Ndugai is not right to claim that members of parliament who visit the parliament are understood "they have a habit like the other human beings." As a student is not allowed to enter the classroom as I understand. Even in the drinks "baamedi" is not allowed to get to work. Now those "human beings like others" tells us the deputy speaker from the planet? Then for an absentiment is the fact that the deputy speaker is aware that there are members of parliament to go to the parliamentary sessions if they understand but they don't have any steps but he is waiting until he gets a chance to place the issue in an interview with the television station. This is a weak leader. Although we can congratulate him for "leaving us the secret of what is happening in parliament" but the bond that he was given is not pointing the finger (in a sense of noting that there are members of parliament, but to take appropriate measures against "criminals". And it's not like I used the Word "criminals" unfortunately. Not certainly. The person who is paid 11 million shillings as a salary of representing a citizen, then he decided to do that representation while he got several beer, or he has stolen a non-cigarette smoking?) or he has given certain things ("flour" -drug abuse?), he does not have a criminal. It is a robber who causes people to live with problems in order to maintain its interests in the expectation that those interests will bring success in work but he is threatening to implement his responsibilities while having a "profit head" (kit)! In one of my articles in the past, I put my stand that the largest salaries of our MPs is a robbery in the day. And now the robbery is proven by the ridiculous of some of the honorable members that ignore the principles of parliament and their responsibilities, and to appear in parliament to understand. But there is one basic question that every Tanzanian is supposed to ask ourselves, "how did it take a place to some of the parliamentary elections in parliament." One reader of this magazine, Omary Abdallah, a Tanzanian who lives in Germany, used a message through Facebook that he advised that instead of continuing to blame the bad leaders, we need us to look at our weaknesses that makes us choose leaders not to stand up (for example they drink). In short, the reader summarizes that the nation has been plagued by fraud and Values. Back to the parliamentary campaign. You'll see the candidate "coming from sweat in the body and the evil horses" to destroy the voters how he cares for them. And in our thinking of thinking, we did not questioning whether the "bitterness" of the candidate is for our interests or his stomach (and maybe "small house"). The results are the ones that we are told they are representing them when they are drinking, smoking or feeding them. But also, in this form of addicted to some of the members of parliament, I see the income of the honorable members to be among the factors to inform their responsibilities. In a normal environment, a person who is given a lot of money for his needs can end up doing incredible things. As the diaspora is witnessing some of the scientists, for example, who are paid millions of money, and there is an appropriate time to show that "bugs" that are done by some of them are caused by plenty of money that do not meet their normal needs. Additional lawsuits seems to have been met by the public. While doctors and teachers were told the government does not have money to improve the benefits and the environment of their work, we have not been given basic reasons to increase the salaries of members of parliament who already had huge salaries. The performance of many of them is not known and even "little" what they were being given before new salaries. It should be remembered that millions of our members of parliament are the money for the taxpayer who most of them are poor. There is every reason for not only to condemn "exploitation" but also opposing it all. Now, as we allow the parliamentary seat to be a direct approach to the wealth, then we will expect to see our elections in front of us and all kinds of folks among those who want to be part of the "project of chap chap" (GET-Rich-quick scheme). In a normal state, who does not want to be paid at least a few thousand shillings for the sleeping work while you have two three beers in the head? It's like going to the bar then unpaid. I request it should be understood that not every member of parliament has its responsibility. There are a few patriotic artists who recognize their responsibilities. Some of them have threatened to "adopt" by Kiti's speaker for "violating the rule of Parliament (isomed: To defend the interests of voters in an unprecedented way to the leaders). These few heroes are brilliant, as they are married out of fulfilling their responsibilities, they are witnessing some of the ones left to continue with sessions when they were sleeping due to a drink, non-cigarette smoking or getting certain things. I'm hoping for a return to the questions that I quoted in the beginning of this article. Tumerogwa and who killed him in a ogwa then died, or our minds were shut down? I request you to reply but your answer should be in the ballot box in the next elections. Where is there a broad way "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_14775765 We live in problem leaders are money The awards are also available to those people. However, they don't understand what they see, I do not see a difference, So the benefit told Tanzanians without knowing we are on the way to finish Complex, we are looking for but if you look at their members that delegates are delegates. I want the guys who will use to go to Liberia to get a long time and that now if the brothers left the enemies that I want to run out but I am surprised at every kilograms of National and Simba being welcomed by the start of the leaders. To win what you see phone is not what we do with the interests they will be intimidated, no except Sunday there is Simba's match and in preparation for a big meeting calling for the coast right to win. World will be able to find solutions and the way they do not have done a week like the teachers to investigate and try to look for ways that is why everyone is unable to trial and it has been in the league that everyone failed to win is the first one that they did not get there, let's forget them and that's also. We like a lot from the generation. You have shown that we shall not be at work every day the criminals will take the medicine to treat wounds to put water for a two rabbit water, they will play the leg they will play. Witchcraft, we have done people and you can't find out the responsibility of scars and you can't know each other so that You can also be censored so that our blog does not know if they are still waiting for donations from his pocket. I mean twitter.com Revenue sources One The neighborhood of the street coming from where they are going, the youth is giving money that is not enough to pay the salaries that they have the last responsibility of his decisions, where there is water because there are people that are called wonders. The theft of the account will be there, there will be people who come to eat at the last collection, I will get the projects that I have met. You know sometimes to know that mi has not yet been reached. In addition, the army are in the snow That we should have to feel that very different from Masanja there usually takes time. I am sorry for the school we got down from the time you ask where and why do you start ten reasons and there are still some people we have to say in the holiday, there have been saying that you should come up with something that everyone is supposed to have a new institution one of the development plan when a five-year-old man may see that it is going to the school even a exchange of medicine. Concerned: Talk about people who know thinking Or not to bring the effects, to reduce before we live and genetic from people to start a better treatment I come back to sleep, there is even heard by the end of the day that I am doing the mistake of that season. Identity for the purpose Still people must pick up
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_52023521 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: Tue, APR 25th, 2017 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TRA gives education education "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tags "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. By KOKU David "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In ensuring tax education reaches every member of taxes in the country, Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has met with tax stakeholders with the aim of teaching different changes in taxes. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Recently at the conference hall that is in the Central Bank (BOT) in Dar es Salaam city, TRA met with leaders and servants from various departments and institutions in a one-day seminar to teach changes in various tax laws through the financial law of every year involved. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In addition to giving education, the seminar was aimed at sharing ideas, experiences and challenges in the implementation of daily responsibilities. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In his work performance, the authority has been meeting with various challenges from tax stakeholders which are currently a strategic plan to make sure they get out completely. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Among those challenges are together with some of the business people to avoid using the electronic fiscal machines (EFDs) with the aim of evade paying the tax payment, including the smuggling business that are imported into the country in ways that are not official. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, that authority has been partnering with the police force to ensure that it has arrested those business people who are doing the smuggling businesses, including their belongings so as to stop those businesses. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On the side of change of tax laws, its implementation is derived from the understanding of two sides which are involved in taxes together with the management of taxes. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. These sides everyone has the responsibility of knowing and to understand them so as to ease the performance of the officers of TRA, but also of paying taxes to pay tax that is correct and to enable the government to get its taxes. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. By recognizing the importance of tax education, the seminar they prepared to through the important areas of the financial law of the year 2016 together with the tax of the blockade from contractors and bidders on various projects and services. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Also, through that seminar the stakeholders got education about the use of the collection of government collection by using electronic fiscal machines (EFDs). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The commissioner of the Department of Marketing, Neema Mrema, says TRA recognizes the cooperation they got from government institutions and various public organizations in fulfilling the goal of reaching the middle economy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He says the goal of the middle economy will now be reached if everyone will implement its responsibilities fully, thus the sustainable partnership is required so that TRA can collect accurate revenue and in time and be able to fulfill what is intended by the fifth phase government. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Revenue Authority has made various improvements aimed at increasing professionalism and efficiency in revenue collection, service delivery and the whole management of law and tax systems. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The aim of those efforts is to ensure government revenue are increasing, including enabling it to do development issues to its citizens. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25818454 The youth, culture and sports in the minute, Mkangara told the journalists in the city of the city of two hundred and four days, the nation has been celebrating the memory of the death of the father of the nation what happened in one hundred and nine minutes whereby the government has decided to unite the commemorations and the peak of the torch of freedom and the peak of the youth week. The torch was launched in one hundred and sixty nine hundred thousand shillings being a national symbol of the nation as a result of mobilization of citizens in demanding independence from the colonization and the importance of living in peace and stability after independence Regarding the youth week national week, Doctor Mkangara said the activities of the week will start on eight to ten years in Shinyanga town after the government set aside that day with the aim of giving the youth the opportunity to meet and show the public the activities they are doing in developing the nation, the government decided to set aside one week. Isn't it all With the aim of giving the youth The opportunity to meet And show compassion Our activities are in developing our nation The commemoration of the youth week that was started officially in the two thousand shillings this year is encouraging more in encouraging the efforts and strategies of the government in enabling the youth to discover themselves volunteering and dare to get positive goals for self-employed and employing other youths who are the foundation of the development of this nation and the report from the country. A child of CHADEMA who is seven years old He has disappeared from home since September ten and two this year in the city. The aunt of the child, a resident of ride Ubungo in Dar es Salaam. He has said that the match disappeared while he was playing with his colleagues in the area of Mandela Road. He has asked anyone who will see a child Give a report to the police station or we communicate with phone number seven five five. Five five, two zero zero. Or seven zero. Three two four times zero zero
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_31834293 Barack Obama, Japanese and Christianity Jun 28, 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Two months ago, I had a funeral in our village, Kamageta, Rorya District, Mara Province. When I went, I was surprised to see the photos of President Barack Obama of the United States in the walls of many my brothers. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In our village there is no electricity. In all the days I had never got a television broadcast even one day. But listen to radio. And my brothers are listening to radio well. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I, Ezekiel Ochido Peter Kiri Liech Kami is a mjaluo. Kamageta is a scholars. And although Barack Obama is far from us, we are still in Japanese are our brothers and followed closely. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Those pictures of the flags were the same thing; now the Japanese is leading the whites in the United States. Because it's a luxury for a human being of a sore knee. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A big question that I would like to tell the readers of this article to get answers though a bit of today is about these people known as Japanese who one of them become President of the United States, the biggest nation in the world. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. First, it is understood that the Japanese are found in approximately 10 countries in Africa. These countries are Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Republic of Congo, South Sudan, Central African Republic and Sudan. In the imagination, the Japanese origin is Diding'a on Dog Nam, the word Dog Nam has the origin of the Ugandan tribe of Uganda (part of the Japanese tribe) which means it is the same as the word Dhonam for the Kenyan and Tanzania. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Until today, the Japanese from around ten countries have not agreed, what is often talked about. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Except various researchers say that the lake is known as Lake No or by another name River Palugo, although in the Arab world known as Bahr El Ghazal. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For many years Japanese have lived along the Nile river and the outskirts of the lake which is called Nam Lolwe (lake with water that goes to the end of the world.) This is the British who came later to beat Lake Victoria. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Japanese is not a tribe which has increased soon. There is evidence to the religious books to show that they had been there since the tragedy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For example, you are coming from a book of a 12: 5-6. That while a student Yepta, Mgileadi, when he was leading Israel made one big thing to identify Waefoot before killing them. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After arresting people, he ordered him to say the word Shibboleth. Ordinary Wael were able to mention the word Shibbolethi but Waefoot failed because they had gone to Sibolethi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Why did they say Shibbolethi? There is one big reason. The people of Effect and Manase are the children of Yusufu aliens and a woman from the Egyptian country (which is also known by the name of passion). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For studying in the Bible, they will know something about the passion. This is the Prophet Mohammed's child who is alleged to see her father was naked. Instead of praising him, he grew up. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That is when Nuhu has laughed. It is said that West Ham (Egypt) is where he went to put the black child. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Now Yusufu is giving birth to there. Unfortunately, children born in Ham (Egypt), their first language was not a bright of Jews. That is why they failed to say the word Shi and instead they were telling Si. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Those who have ever talked to ethnic groups such as Japanese, Waacholi, Christians and Ariluk, hope that they don't have a word.. in their words. They told them to say the shirt themselves say no. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There are people who are flirting that "Ah black as a whip." That the Japanese are black to obey. But this is not a shame for mjaluo. Basically, in religious books, among the most beautiful women in the history of this tribe, Astarte discusses the king of King Suleiman in Mithali's book; "I'm a Beast and black." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Basically, black is something to be proud of in ujaluo. Names like Ochol and Rateng have one meaning in Swahili; black. Names such as Oteng (Jorge) explains the lineout that God Jok (Jamaluo were trust before white and Arab religions have not entered), was killed by using the black soil, which is found on the front of river Kiir (Kiir is the name of the Nile river. Kiir is also the second name of the president of South Sudan Salva Kiir. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_88733688 Compared to last year December since the ninth of December to December Because we use the system of using the dollar because the dollar is the money that is going on, you use the dollar if you look for it that had six hundred thousand. Six hundred thousand shillings last year, a person can get through a total of nine hundred thousand dollars which is the same as three hundred and seven hundred thousand dollars in the floor on one of the current rate you are getting three hundred and five hundred dollars, thus already from December until today at the center you lost the dollar, the bride is the one to pay for money. Because of the Tanzanian money when you look at a person you finished the farming and harvesting, you find it the same money that has not increased there. If you look at this anywhere. You can't have big ministers. Even if the government itself In Israel, there is still a bed and planting in a banner like ours now, it has risen so much as a businessman there had bought your things to the dollar and then now you don't sell you on the same price because it was paid a five hundred thousand. Tanzanians below In December they were eight hundred and twenty thousand shillings but now it is paid nine hundred thousand shillings and rearing we see how those things affect many people. We Tanzanians do not have our industries There is no thing we are selling outside but instead the small dollar that is available while in the town is bought and we are without any way and we can sell outside we have a lot of industries that do not have a reason to go to bring things so that such things are doing. This money, I'm sorry. Mi on my side are we Tanzanians deserve to think more.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_52781724 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Watch this space there are hooligans from Argentina - Brazil, police in Brazil have warned the soccer fans that are preparing to go to the country to witness the World Cup finals that they may have been attacked by fans from Argentina. Security forces in the country have expressed concern that the illegal group in Argentina popularly known as Barra Brava while cooperating with others from Brazil to steal and disturb the visitors. The report states that the group will target Belo Horizonte on June 24 when England will play with Costa Rica in the final match of Group D. "We are watching the groups of violence following their behavior a day - Brazil a few days ago," the newspapers quoted the police station in that town. "But we know the fans with great ability to negotiate, they will arrive in a charge and about Barra Brava, we know that most of them will travel to cars and it will be very difficult to follow them," the reports added. On Monday, the police said a group of fans from Ar with more than 6 hooligans by a group of hooligans of hooligans, called Mafia Azul l to leasing their homes in the country to be hooligans from Argent and klab in H called San Lorenzo. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1146 bible religion
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_34838497 Mbowe The mobile phone company vodacom today has handed over a check worth ten million shillings to the Red Cross party in the country being a donation to the affected people affected by the floods in Kilosa District in Morogoro province recently to get information. While handing over the check, the head of the Institute of vodacom Foundation yessaya Mwakifulefule has said that the purpose of giving that donation is to ensure that the community that had been affected by the disaster is back in the state of their previous life and from the difficult environment is caused by the floods, Mister Mwakifulefule has said that the hopes of the victims of the floods that happened in Duncan is in the hands of the Tanzanians themselves, therefore it is the responsibility of everyone to reflect on how to help the residents to volunteer in order to correct their previous life, we went to the past if you saw. And there's a reason to be given our support there. Because we are sure about that and they have been missing well The whole thing that happened. In religion where there are victims still in those houses on his side, the president of the Red Cross in the country, Doctor George nchez has said that after the disaster, the party took the quick action by giving various donations including building emergency settlements due to the fact that many families have lost their homes part of a donation of ten million shillings to be provided by the vodacom today we thank you so much. Even that will enable you Paying for sending advice from the light That Seven travel ban In order to ask the mentally those affected by psychological drought and disaster Mi is a great consolation for Airtel in Dar es Salaam. You say
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_83320234 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 13 December 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The bill for citizens to get information landing in parliament "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government expects to take a bill of justice and freedom of citizens to get all important information on all government institutions in the parliamentary session in the year. Minister of Justice and Law, Mister. Mathias Chikawe, said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday at the launch of the transparency competition which was organized by a non-governmental organization Twaweza in collaboration with the government in order to get opinions from the citizens especially the youth in school. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said the aim of the government to take the bill in parliament is to enable the implementation of the laws that will supervise the collection of opinions from the citizens, to increase transparency and accountability of the government in conjunction with the citizens. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "In the year we take this bill in parliament so that it can be discussed, the aim is to ensure the government becomes a close partnership with the citizens," said Mister. Chikawe. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking about the competition, Mister. Chikawe said that he has been built to improve the health sector, water and education where every citizen is supposed to give opinions that he can bring great changes in the concerned sector. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He added that the competition will give a chance to the citizens to cooperate with the government to address various challenges that are in those sectors in the country for the benefit of the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He urged the citizens to come out to give their views so that the international plan to run government activities for Transparency (OGP), to be successful by ending corruption and use new technology so as to strengthen better governance. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On his part, Twaweza organization, Mister. Rakesh Rajani said the citizens will release opinions on how to improve health services, education and water so as to bring change. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "The youth who are students, if they give better opinion in this competition, their schools will be given a computer, so as to increase accountability and transparency in the country, there is importance of government institutions and non-governmental institutions to start the system of giving out all important information to the citizens," said Mister. Rajani. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_63799364 We have made an urgent need to be that dancer we have managed to capture and different tools in America, I have arrived safely more than eight hundred million shillings in Ukerewe Town, Mwanza Province, referring to the assistant close to the brutal police, he has said that those penalties have been arrested in the special operation has been held in Ukerewe, which even his wife has only gone to a person in mind with diseases and ignorance and ushering a child to say in fighting against the enemy of using illegal tools, our writer lacked to make a lot more from Mwanza. Lake is the largest in the continent In recent years, it has been hit by the pace of disappearance of fish due to an increase in fishing using illegal tools where ninety percent and four percent of the fish in the world Right now, it is young under fifty centuries, a patrol squad in Mwanza region which include the provinces of Mwanza and Simiyu commended in dealing with the effects of the reduction of fish has conducted a crackdown on fighting illegal fishing in the lake, and to arrest so much and then fishing with a value of more than eight hundred million shillings in a lot or we have arrested them in that patrol together with a song Sangara about two hundred thousand shillings and we have also been able to arrest my strategic plans. A house of believer in the result? On each of the committee is broad. Also. Seven ethnic groups Saba and third despite the success but the fight against illegal fishing in the Lake Region have experienced a lot of challenges that meet with the ostadic statement, you find a politician if it is the councilor then I tell them that those who are participating in the patrol they are doing in the year a branch is a step until we are told to get their stones. The whole operation that was run from thirty o'clock and one up to December ten this year, the head of Ukerewe District, Joseph interpreter mosques gave a call to the new minister of agriculture and fisheries. Nchemba my personality to Mwigulu said Mwigulu Nchemba is two. She has to understand that. Vankets even little is the people they do. I had no power for the time and started fighting the youth. Mym we look like a minister of if you are a counselor if it is a lump and you know this is the actor of this concept, he does not buy them now, you can mention the advice that aims at ending illegal fishing in the lake as it is married by the district commissioner must now find those who are taking them. Because it is impossible, Bana Ukerewe Committee But others have come out of Ukerewe, only and it's not a very good place to bring a big man, then we come to arrest the insects you have met in helping to arrest the big fish that the kind of Sangara have opened in the lake to reach one million and three hundred thousand tons to reach eight hundred tons. Six hours ago but for these hours the fish have reduced Great If you have a lot of ten thousand money to continue above we would ask the government Interviews You can start lawmakers For them to get. Life is not a problem It is not so not that he has wrong to make a different province in Mwanza. Mbeya
query2956 potatoes
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_49258835 President of the World Football Federation FIFA Sepp Blatter has said the technology to decide the board should now be presented to lawyers earlier. Next month the statement follows the hosts of Euro finals is in. Category seems to be the barley crossing the line in the final match to ignore the match that Ukraine needed a win To get to the quarter finals that the decision of the referees will be left Paulina but the ball was down there. Crossing the line but he defended the referee Victor kasai of how many times And his assistant that he has done a mistake as a human being And that the decisions have been made about this by ninety percent and three to seven points to protect, he has said that a player taking the speed in secret and those who has played a high level equivalent to the game. Along
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35468155 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Those involved in Zanzibar should be punished by the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein recently has been warned the people of Zanzibar especially the youths on the danger and the dangers of not respecting the law. While in Pemba he met with the citizens at the celebrations to commemorate 52 years of Revolution and warned those who broke the law that at the end of the day they will find themselves in trouble. He said the security agencies and especially the police force did not like to bully people, but it has no patience with people who are wearing the law. This is a good advice of a parent to the youth and especially as the leader of the country because the law must fail and be respected. By doing so, the excuse of breaking the law is removed. If citizens see the law is bad and it's not going to do what is needed is to protect and build arguments to make corrections. However, we should not forget that the issue of respecting the laws of the country is about every citizen and the guest and they are not expected to get hanged among the big and small, rich and poor or the love of someone to the political party or soccer club. The problem that is in Zanzibar and which is seen to be engaged or not being given the required weight is to be directed to the existing laws. This trend has caused some people to feel like Zanzibar, there are people who are on the law and they have the right to take their colleagues at their heads and to make them. Not one or two or three have heard reports of people in their council of talks being attacked and beaten without reasons. There are some who were hurt and treated for hospitals and in all the events, there is no even one person who was arrested and held responsible for those crimes. A list of these kinds of events are long. Some of the council have been broken down on the excuse of making a garden while others that are near those were not touched. Here it is alleged that it has been used political will and not the laws of the country. We all remember several events of Zanzibar journalists being threatened and even beaten. Also, one radio station located in Unguja Town was attacked by those who are told they are hooligans and arrested, but we have not heard that those crimes were arrested. When there is a situation like this person is asking, these laws in Zanzibar should be allowed to have a group of certain people and it is permission to be filtered by others? If he said the law must be allowed, but the need to be for everyone and not someone or a group of people seem to be above the law. Also, it is important for the law to be seen that they are doing the reasons for the accused of violating the ones held quickly as required by the court. Here, we must remember that someone remains to be a suspect, anyone who has been sentenced to death as a culprit until he was found guilty by the court. Therefore, the bail of the suspect in different charges except a few, usually the right of the defendant. The terms of bail some of the times are given the terms of bail which is the same as telling the defendant not to have the right to get bail. For example, we heard with the right to put on bail is Serikal servants. In that sense, the people of Zanzibar have been divided in phins, one of the civil servants and the second payments are those who don't work in the government. This is not a little right and it is not giving the shape of the good system of law and good governance. He has been in complaints of existence cases and some people are languishing in prison for years as we heard the investigation is not completed or is on the ground to be completed. This is encouraging the good governance and inappropriate governance of law enforcement, they denounce this trend by telling us, "Justice delayed is Justice denied," that is the right to be released is the same as not being granted. In order for the law to make the work intended by the citizens to have faith in the law system, it is a must for justice to be done and there is no abuse by anyone inside and outside the court. The style of people to have the courage and decide to keep their faces and then screaming is against the law and it is unacceptable. The explanation that those who do that are hooligans and therefore people should ignore them even when their backs are being sold or their houses were found no logic and it is unacceptable. In Pemba Island, there was a huge destruction of house arrest, the farms of people being attacked and cloves. Who's the ones involved? Many are said about the events and what was witnessed is silence like what happened is small things. These are saying this and those saying that some of the accusations that are heard is thick and are not being ignored. It is good to clear the weather and the truth of this issue, it is good to be formed a independent commission, it's not for the people of Zanzibar, to look for the only truth to investigate who was involved. By doing that is everyone who will have faith that the law of Zanzibar do not discriminate or get married to anyone who broke the eyes on this excuse or what. While we celebrate the 53 years of the revolution whose aim is to put the state of citizens equal to removing discrimination or injustice of any kind, it is good to make an evaluation on how the laws are working in the islands. That evaluation should have a broader scope and I'm excited about the law, but even how employment and education positions are being given by the government. Another thing is the issue of the delivery of the Zanzibar identity cards. This needs to be monitored in detail and the terms of terms will be able to eliminate complaints about the provision of identity cards. Among the things that want to be monitored in detail is why up to today thousands of people who and their parents have been born in the Island and have never been out of Zanzibar, they are out of their identity cards? It is surprising that people rated to Zanzibar in recent years and they do not have the graves of their parents in the Islands, they are amba and have their identity cards and become more people of people who were born and left. The government thought that there are many people who were given identity cards contrary to the law, but we have not heard even one of them or who have given them responsible. The time has come for everything to look at all the two of the currency and if possible even in the use of the coin rather than to blame one another. The writer is a political and community analyst. Twitter: Sasteki @ gmail.com and comments @ scientanch. corez "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_28139019 The husband A non-HIV infection with a woman with infections can be able to do sex on women They can't get AIDS for your question but the sentence is not true because a man meets with a woman who has HIV / AIDS It depends on that the act of marriage will do with him while there is a possibility that you get HIV / AIDS but not because of it. Except if they will do that act, when a woman is ready, it was revealed well to make the civilization To say no injuries Even if he is doing and there is also a man who can get the disease, but the one is quick if they will have met physical and he has got his skills in Dance has signed up even if five until now there is a big possibility of getting infection. HIV / AIDS for that news that you do love and putting them Some are saying that you are sleeping soon after doing that act that they can't get problems. Or that's what you want to find this infection is not true It depends on that the act of marriage, I have been called for the do of the doctors, I want to ask this is something that causes the stomach decisions during Eddy's life. Thank you for your question Pain What is happening during menstruation, many researchers have done research and they found that there are different things that can result in but the real situation of the person to hear pain when it is caused by what is still not yet known, and this often you find that there are people getting pain when they are in the place. Their own A month without having any error in the reproductive way or you can see where some are getting. Pain When they are during their menstruation days with any problem in the reproductive system so it can be seen others are feeling so much that up to that. The whole body and you have got an error with a person who is looking for blasphemy can make some experts say especially in their age those girls who are less men Sometimes it may be because of The psychological problem is that they think that when I get into my last days I would have heard the pain so when it comes to true when he is in his month's days, you find you find a problem in the generation. Neurozone It's full It is full of blood there is true to download Competition in blood vessels To the extent that This man is getting a lot of pain and others can also find you, maybe he has a chorus. Her reproductive system can lead to problems such as these two times when he comes to. His first days of the month But many times do not be advised When a man is with severe pain during his month's days so that he can rest and you are required or not that food is blasphemy and you can contribute to the application of the increase. So in short, I can answer if these are the actual reason why a person is not yet known, others include the horse of the body such as we call the post Gladys with much more likely to cause problems in your days. Waitwe stars as long as I request to know the doctor in case? There was one of the dead people being affected by the ability to get HIV / AIDS, when a person for example is going to give support and you found that there are other people who were already infected. AIDS does not pass the blood that someone who died is likely to get the infection of the virus. If you don't use the protection for example to wear gloves, therefore people are advised you like to give support in accidents even if it is the dead bodies, you are still supposed to have a donation in accidents even if you are dead, you are still supposed to have a lot of infections through blood even if someone is successful because he is dead this time so we advise someone I would like to save people in accidents which makes gloves in the diseases including the HIV virus. Until then No additional In this section of ask the doctor You have. Evening match
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_12399686 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tanzania, Congo and BURUNDI work after being used in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda have formed a union called 'United Nations ready ", Tanzania, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) have started cooperation between them. In the recent days there has been a movement in the East African Community (EAC) after Tanzania and Burundi was brought by their colleagues of Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda in some of the important issues of cooperation especially economically. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Tanzania, Burundi and DRC have met with the implementation of the promise of the minister of East Africa cooperation, Samuel Sitta, who told the previous parliament that Tanzania is thinking of collaborating with those countries. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A good meeting "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While speaking to journalists after the meeting of Knowledge Mwema, held in Bujumbura, Burundi yesterday, Sitta said Tanzania, Burundi and Congo have agreed to develop the road infrastructure, railway, air and water transportation in Lake Tanganyika. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said the meeting intended to improve the transport infrastructure in Lake Tanganyika which is joining Burundi, DRC and Zambia. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "We have also planned to develop the central railway from Uvinza area, Tanzania to Msongati, Burundi and also connecting the Manyoni - Tabora - Kigoma, through Bujumbura to South Africa, DRC," said Sitta. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That meeting was attended by Sitta and the minister of East African Cooperation of Burundi, Leonardo Nzenga and the minister of transport of DRC, Jack Lukeba. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "We also visited Kalindo Port that is in Lake Tanganyika on the side of Burundi because we want to improve the port of that lake," said Sitta. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That minister said Tanzania and Burundi will be joined by the Manyoni - Tabora - Kigoma and Manyovu Road - Mgina, Mabanda - Bujumbura that will be connected to South Africa, DRC. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. On air travel, Sitta said those countries are looking at the possibility of starting the flights of Dar es Salaam to Bujumbura. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_81460724 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Commission of controlling the drugs that are based on public officials. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rashid Mkwinda "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After the silence of approximately ten years since the people alleged to be the high contenders that are associated with transportation and importation of drugs in the country, their names were taken to the former head of Dar es Salaam Province, Yusuf Makamba, the commission of coordinating and controlling the drugs in the country has continued to mention the names of the champions. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Reports of the presence of 12 champions of drugs were raised in Mbeya province in the year 2014 where some of the users of those drugs popularly known as' drug 'claiming to be involved in those drugs they took the names of 12 heads to Makamba who until retiring has never mentioned those names. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking at a meeting with journalists in the office of the Provincial Commissioner of Mbeya, Abbas Kandoro, about the reports of the commemoration of the Day of drugs in the country that is taking place tomorrow in Mbeya City, the chief analysis from the commission of drugs, January Ntisi said the names of the champions were presented to the commission and continue to undergo a confirmation of their respective courts and outside, there are procedures that are continuing with international law on this issue, "said Ntisi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that there are some who were mentioned their names that are still searching and that however, their control has been difficult because of having a big network of the rich people with great ability to use modern equipment including Battle that have speed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "" They have a great Network, they're using Bloombs to speed up, we continue to search in conjunction with some foreign countries, this issue needs serious attention, "explained Ntisi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Regarding the release of some of the accused of drugs and control of drugs, on the issues that are arraigned in court, the disappearance is fake, the Director of criminal Justice and genes, Gloria Omar said that all information that comes to the chief chemist is going on according to the evidence. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "" The reports brought to the chief chemist is working professionally and confirmed according to the evidence, "he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking on phone from Dar es Salaam city, an activist for fighting for human rights and war on drugs, Pastor William Mwamalanga said that the Commission for Drugs Administration does not have the ability to help this problem and instead it will be directed to the police force. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "The commission has changed in this, the suspects who were mentioned to have been involved in drugs in the past ten years have returned fast and they are telling these businesses, the Mwalimu Nyerere International Airport has become the right to pass the torture," he noted. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that between the international airport in the East African countries, Mwalimu Nyerere International Airport is the weak stadium than all fields where it has been used to bring and transporting drugs without serious control. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that transportation and importation of drugs has increased three times in a period of ten years and that the number of deaths and increase in users has been a great threat and that the commission has been unable to control that situation for the whole period since its establishment. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the Pastor of Kipentekoste said that until June this year, according to the research conducted by the activists of the fight against drugs in the country is that a total of 6708 youths have died from drugs in Dar es Salaam city alone. He said that Mbeya City a total of 48 youths have died while in the border cities of Tunduma and Kyela, a total of 104 youths have died and in Tanga town a total of 71 youths have died while Mwanza City a total of 36 youths have died due to the use of drugs. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_52073824 SA can talk to those people I told him today to give me my great friend and my younger brothers were getting tired, I don't know where I must also do and what a parent was scrambling yeah, I'm too little to see me when I get this and another else I will give the words the words. Okay Ehhe okay Right to child child, that is true he should have to have. I will have to reason if brothers and relatives think I'll try not to work is not good things to do not good things. For yourself, I'll just have to go down with the talk of a child with their values and values. Okay mym When a mother is why they will be able to see what we are behind and not good Beautiful events, my uncle will be like your words are okay, it is so bad for me. It may be no one where I said in the folks like the family first one thing. That is in December a woman in the outside than the year is just waiting for it. Than we were there and it is very true they will be able to do bad because until it continued well, the solution will be okay and this will be the same as the same guys on Saturday, the same person told me that I voted yesterday and told me that I was so proud of it in the morning. When I talked to them, they agreed to have said that there are no many things if I haven't seen him even in a small house. Mym will be mym Mym
query1714 body anatomy respect
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58124502 What happened at the international meeting of Davos Feb 07, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Recently, President Jakaya Kikwete attended the annual international meeting in Switzerland in Davos city known as the World Economic Forum (WEF) or Davos. This meeting that started on December 22, 2013 is 44. They attended nearly 2,500 people including presidents, government heads, heads of international companies, investors, heads of international banks, economic experts and a few representatives of civil society. They were in the 80s and millionaires who don't be counted. Their total is 1,500 when government officials are 48. African rulers are in every year to attack aid and subsidies or attract investors. All of them are out in a luxurious hotel that is in the mountains of Davos. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The agenda of the meeting had a topic about poverty, unemployment, water, treatment and social protection, as well as climate change. The aim is to bring economic and social development in the world, as they say. IF 2014 report submitted to the world's biggest threat today is an increase in differences between the rich and the youngest, the wealthy and more poor people are fast growing. Participants discussed the topics in 250 meetings that took place. The wealthy people have confronted ideas with politicians and scholars on the purpose of protecting and strengthening their capitalist system. That is why they were willing to pay 250,000 dollars each to attend the meeting and be members of WEF. Civil society are invited and are allowed to select the way to improve the system. Ten Naidoo, an activist from South Africa said "I'm usually invited every year and WEF without payments so as to show that our contributions are trusted. He is the leader of the international organization for protecting the environment (Green Peace). It was also invited by OXFAM organization which presented a very important report before the opening of the meeting. The organization's research has shown that one percent of the richest people in the world are owning 110 trillion US dollars, that is 65 percent more than the property owned by half of all the poor people in the world, it is more likely that while fuel are growing, the rich and more people are growing. For example, Bill Gates who should depend on him as our big sponsor, last year its capital increased by a sum of 15.8 billion dollars and to 78.5 billion. The results are now taking the first position in the world that he had lost. This one Gates in its 25 pages report says the world's situation has been restored, that poverty is reduced and that poor nations are starting to be independent instead of depending on aid. He predicted that by 2035 there will be no poor country in the world. He has forgotten that every 20-year-old child is dying in the world due to lack of clean water and greetings. That is why the Director of OXFAM, Winnie Byron told the meeting that "it is a horrible thing to be in the 21st century, three and a half billion people are owning a little amount than the property owned by a few wealthy people who can spread in one bus of passengers." OXFAM added that this situation has been caused by a few wealthy invading property by controlling the political system, it also uses a way to control the economic system for their benefit. OXFAM warned the rich of Davos that the fight against poverty is only a mere words without making sure that the difference between the rich and the poor doesn't increase every day "this mixed causes causes resources to continue being controlled by a few wealthy people, when we remain fighting for it, we live in a community where better treatment services and education is controlled by a few people for their benefit and their children. This seems not only in the poor country but even in those countries. Pope Francis also warned that incredible revenue as well as the allowance and allowances of the horrible scars are a symbol of the economy that is full of greed and minority. He added that without equal opportunities (political, social and economically) for all our communities don't live in peace. He rebuked the community where many people die in hunger when food is burnt because there is no market. He said "theories" claims that the growing wealth of a minority under the Creative Commons system will benefit the poor. He warned that the system of worship for a few wealth will cause many people to cut up and the community like this will not live in peace because the poor will face it. "I pray to God to come to the politicians that are deeply saddened by the poor state of our citizens," said Pope Francis. But in Davos the words made by OXFAM, Naidoo, Byron and the Pope as usual were put aside. Ungetexpected otherwise in this meeting that was attended by senior leaders of the world's wealth and ruling the economy, politics and policies of our countries? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_99240422 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Ladai Police Force to kill a child while blocking the car of his Father Lugo to be with the blood flow. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The police force in Arusha province has arrested seven people who are alleged to be involved in the killing of women together with looting of using weapons in the city. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The report that was given to the journalists yesterday by the police commander, Arusha Province, Liberatus Sabas, said that among the suspects, the two were arraigned in court the day before yesterday and a report was released. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the report, who were arrested are also involved in the shooting of a three-year-old child, Christen NATO, who was killed while preventing those criminals. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They don't take a car for his parents, August 21st this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Commander Sabas mentioned the suspects who were brought to the court the day before yesterday as Japhet Lomnyaki (25), a resident of Sakina and Nehemia Kweka (34), a resident of Ngaramtoni. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The suspects who are continuing to be questioned as Adam Mussa, popularly known as Badi Makonde (30), a resident of Majengo, Tito Love (25), a resident of two, Joseph Love (29), a resident of two, Abdallah Maglan (22), a resident of Oldadi and Emmanuel Maglan (23), a resident of Oldclaim. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "The suspects are alleged to have been involved in the August 21 event this year, which occurred in Olasite, because the Day they had a motorcycle of Toyo and they had Little to beat the Child," Said Commander Sabas. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_19688632 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Zanzibar: Next budget support citizens... Jun 01, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Every ordinary citizen is going to war. He is fighting for life. Every day in Unguja town you will find people who do not have employment to leave the streets or in their house. The pockets of their rice will be empty with their heads and their minds to find ways of getting next food. When you go to the farm will find the same situation so that the weakness are facing the citizens. When you go to Pemba, the things came from it. In general, many of the people of Zanzibar have remained as they don't know what they should do so that they can get the ways of intimidation. It is a great exam that you find. Undoubtedly it is not a visitor in Zanzibar but this close years has been changed. The responsibility of reducing or closing away it completely is the government and especially it is the minister of finance and his ministry. The minister gets the opportunity when he presented the government's budget in the House of Representatives. Next month the Minister of Finance of Zanzibar, Yusuf Omar Mzee, will submit the first budget of the national government in the special sessions of the House of Representatives. As it is for the budget fees, that will explain the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the government and it will also put strategies to combat poverty, to promote the economy and to bring development in general. The people of Zanzibar are hoping that the budget will be very different from those in the past decades which have contributed to protecting this current state of Mchafonte economically. We have already used to the budget when it was presented to the House of Representatives to hear the government that it was introduced as the economy of Zanzibar has been inking and growing. The government provides its official statistics to try to confirm that. Sadly, it is that the status of the lives of citizens or are bringing up to the way or to sabotage. Therefore, the explanation of the growth of the economy are empty stories because it cannot be confirmed. This is because there is a huge weakness in the collection of independent statistics, that is those that are not given by the government. The country's finance minister is facing a lot of challenges when he prepared the budget of this year. The other challenges are short, sometimes for an average period and others for a long time. First, in a short period of time, he is taking responsibility to address the issue of deficit of government funds. The remaining challenges, that is those of the average and long time period, of course is to implement the plans that was organized or that will be prepared by the government so as to enable the economy of Zanzibar to get relief and start growing. The people of Zanzibar know that the future of them is good because the long-term economic growth of the island is good. They have that belief because they say they will increase investment from outside and they are focusing on the expectations of the creation of independent economic areas. There are signs or other signs that are also encouraging, like, for example, hope to be found in fuel. However, it is important that the economic disease affecting the citizens are given medicine in the June budget. It is important to show that this government's policies do not differentiate between the previous governments, that these policies tend to serve the citizens. Secondly, it is important that it will be done so that the people of Zanzibar can donate to the future but their economic and social welfare. If we have already forgotten in this mid-fielder, the National Union needs, again for emergencies, having a "easy food policy" so as to meet the daily needs to enable the citizens to get food. Other things that need to be investigated and tested keenly is the standards of tax and taxes, transport costs and more taxes twice - and Tanzania Revenue Authority and the Tanzania Revenue Authority. The people of Zanzibar have the desire to see how their finance minister will be playing political parties about the leadership of the economy. They have that desire because of the state of things that is right now, that minister has no ability to read that he will know the standards of income tax, customs tax, currency activities and banks, delivery of industries and businesses and the whole issue of the central bank. He also said that the minister has no way to grab international funds that are provided by institutions like those of the World Bank and the Department of International Monetary Fund (IMF). The current situation continues to implement it in implementing the long-term plans to boycott the national government's economy. Neither the government will not be able to bring development in the economy of independent areas. Indeed, the economic system of free areas is needed for the islands of Unguja and Pemba and not in areas of Fumba and Micheweni alone because Zanzibar is a country with a small area. In fact, when Zanzibar was with the economy of the independent area, an independent area of the economy was both the two islands and the effectiveness found on the two islands. Neema spread across the world. It is important to remind "EM that in the colonial era of Zanzibar, it was insufficient without depending on the colonial state. Therefore, it was able to donate its social services, it was able to pay the salaries of its workers, building hospitals and secondary schools. Likewise, the government was able to form the infrastructure that brought him at the same time. So that it can be able to take all the steps of meaning in the economic and social sectors, and even the political, the government of the national union does not have tricks but to start a quick discussion inside or outside the new constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania that will start being used for five years after being accepted. The aim of that discussion should be to bring about the authority and the economic and social power of Zanzibar which have been divided for a period of 47 years in the union. Unfortunately, the coalition government did not use the power to take the whole project in Zanzibar with the flow of economy to its citizens. The coalition government up to now has been the most active member of parliament whenever this defect is mentioned. The power of Zanzibar that brought in the union should not be resolved then Zanzibar will not be able to save his economy and the economy will continue to sabotage and even courts. At the moment the economy of Zanzibar has a lot of irregularities: A large number of people who do not have employment, a large number of people who don't have income to enable them to use money, prices of food, oil and other products. We must also remember that Tanzania mainland is not a big business partner of Zanzibar as it is in China, for example. The current situation is that Tanzania mainland is involved or connected to the economy of Zanzibar on the network of law and regulations which are in Zanzibar the ability to control his economy will be. Therefore, it cannot make a good wall when you want to donate to its social welfare. Then there is an issue of corruption. This is a tragedy that the United Nations government has the ability to eliminate and it does not require the excuse of returning to power from the coalition. Corruption has become a cancer that has spread across Zanzibar and the Minister of Finance must use every way to fight. There would be reliable and reliable statistics of corruption in the country and how it kills the economy of Zanzibar. The government claims that Zanzibar's economy is growing by six percent (6%) every year. Corruption is growing, growing at the same level or more? In the past Zanzibar did not have corruption as it is now. This disaster has continued due to the uroho of the government servants, the department that was directed by the government service that has employed several thousands of staff, bureaucracy that have been able to use money that would be used instead of using education and health services and also help the fuel especially in terms of paying the high prices of food. That's the beginning of the first government of the National Union in Zanzibar, it must prove that it is following the new numbers and not the past. The people will be waiting for the results of that budget and to look at how it will affect the non-employment, poor and poor poor. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1977 dermatology juice fruit extract
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_94608085 And then we killed until they were a unit. It should be a lot of people who were raped everywhere. Welcome, we got factories Australian schools and services to customers are desperate to reach as a tree planting and a special tool for what they have uploaded. The price will not succeed all the sides had to start. The ride must be a special people who had been appointed from there still mi from the ethnic groups in class two have become a very good ht; unk, gt; a child to follow me following a bed in bed there was a bed. Every group there is true why our branches do not have an increase. The children so we were the battery and the government will have to meet let go out of the ground there are big sun. There are people who were taken to Mabang He has told us there should be such a tool in terms of a big house of not given what he was on the side. My way I wanted to destroy the end of sir, if you want to mean children You believe that children like that to participate but celebrating three years ago and witness the small groups but two people are enough men also know himself That he is saying that there has been a lot of nonsense that will agree with three Makame in the citizens and that time you pass there is a problem. They are ready to give it forward even when we went to the globe, there are people a long time when we ask the government to do one thing to tell us at the situation that we have the first to go to garissa we are making these important services if you want a place to give them a high speed; a lot of people get the service. Of the plane, I'm tired that it has passed since the couple continue then they can pay certain taxes I hope that you hear our members of today in the full period but have said I was happy For the report they have been punished and given money but the big problem that has been checked and they take it for a long time is that when the promises they are saying they are not fun, they have said that there are people sitting in the place I hope that they have reached out for hours. Lord people have got one place like they standing on dala dala Now we can saving
query3721 orphan school
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_18484377 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Nchimbi opened up after CCM became his name during the parliamentary race "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The former minister of internal affairs and the member of parliament of Songea town, Doctor. Emmanuel Nchimbi (in the picture), has opened up about several issues and explained that Tanzanians should understand that the difference in political parties is common in a democracy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Doctor. Nchimbi said that yesterday being one day after the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Songea town to reject the form of requesting for contesting for the parliamentary seat he was taken by the citizens on claims it was not meeting the criteria. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "I don't tell us that you have a difference between our parties is a common thing in democracy, we can be out of suggestions, but we have been praised in decisions, we become one thing to support the decisions that we agree and that is the good procedure of building democracy," he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Doctor. Nchimbi said that he was being interviewed by Radio One station yesterday morning, he said that democracy of not knowing the truth is not democracy but true democracy is for freedom of thought. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that a person who does not like CCM should be fine is a person who will not get good in the country and that he does not plan to relocate the party because he was raised by CCM. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He added that the reports that he and several cadres have been questioned by the party concerning the statements they made during the sessions of the presidential candidate that they were not satisfied with that process is not true. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "I have left CCM and I still continue to be CCM due to the basis of imagination and policy, now if there is a person that thinks that I can move that CCM is a very ridiculous thoughts," he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The CCM political committee of Songea district last Sunday refused to receive the form of vying for the parliamentary seat of the Doctor. Nchimbi and some of the residents claiming that it did not meet the criteria. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, last month Doctor. Nchimbi opened a meeting of members of CCM, leaders and the citizens and thanked them for the cooperation that nominated him during his leadership period then to announce that he will not vie again for the parliamentary seat in that constituency this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Doctor. Nchimbi was mentioned that he may be praying for Mbinga West constituency that is in Nyasa District which was being held by the late Kapten John Komba, who died earlier this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_65796763 Probably For me I would say And what do you do? I've got to see what I could continue. Choosing for other people Then wards continue with that. Right now and then it's lost Now they go back that role. End In that they were given if not. However, I managed to loose the leader I would ask me a question when and I know that I've got again on the lines but I am so grateful to clarify about the payments and other things that have been questions of distraumatised people who are asking now to go back to violate it. When people are walking and when you work with the journalists in Kenya, they say what he has explained about the payment has explained that there is a time they went on and they can't eaten in the kitchen, people have gone to the international athletics in the citizens say. Thank you so much if you are not first to say the congratulations to listen to him so that he can do in the American voice and I commend it also because he has won a lot of times and then the problems that came up there I've heard a lot of time to start India twenty ten and one Maputo ten and two London is ten and third was the most common he finished fourth position. And he has proved that He has made it better in his ways Tomorrow, because it's also a stir and those of other athletes have heard here saying they have done these mistakes like insurance through buses that are called 'I don't want all Back to many Kenya have such comments if you look at the social networks that we journalists but we are participating here in Kenya, you see people expressing pain, citizens have expressed mixed feelings and another thing that many have said that payments did not have problems when it has come with the payments. It's not to say to me this side that it is a scholar who is leading the committee for many years Isn't he the place he has been elected by the ministers Ehyou to investigate everything was held fake Ehr officials who supervised the crime in Kenya does not mean that one placed on the way as a doctor is an elder who has been appointed by the Olympic Committee of the Olympic Committee And you can't. Ehhe: Ahmad two things that the committee can congratulations together with the fact that they have helped many youths to get studies in universities like Scotland and elsewhere in the region of Makamba, it has emerged that there is a good thing that the Kenyans don't leave it quickly because of the reasons. So many youths like promoting the games I am very unsure that I would like to say before we will end. The first part of thinking that tomorrow on live talk about one hour and a half hours in East Africa and also. Facebook we will be discussing this issue of the Olympic games and a scientist from African regions and especially in East Africa are participating in athletics competitions across the world and why they fail and sometimes fail and various problems are also supervision, but before we finish in short, I see that those listeners who are advocating back on as u CAN be on our Facebook page are continuing to give opinions on whether this person's relatives says that most of them should be handed over to him Musa week, he has said that we must change them so that we don't give it more than pocket. The very high level of course, we will look at a detail tomorrow on line from one hour and a half hours in East Africa through the Swahili language channel and now stay tuned in the second place in detail
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_51871122 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Wetang'ula is looking for immunity in court Erick NGOBILO and WYCLIFFE Senator of Bungoma Moses Wetang'ula has ordered his lawyers to oppose the case presented by Musikari Kombo to the Supreme Court about his election. "The case was presented 38 days after the general election contrary to 28 days needed. The Supreme Court has already given guidance on the case and we hope that the law will be followed, "said Mister Wetang'ula. The Senator said that the decision made on Friday by the Court of Appeals to oppose his appeal will not affect in any position as Senator of Bungoma. Mister Wetang'ula ignored the claims that the Court of Appeals has decided that he should not hold that position. "This is a translation of the law it should not be. The court of Appeals in December ignored my appeal and wanted that election to be found where I won by many votes, "he said. In his decision last Friday, Korti Referral Hospital supported the Supreme Court's decision that Mister Wetang'ula warned religious leaders during a meeting held on Red Cross Kendyi where he gave 260 shillings on February 22, 2013. The panel of three judges issued the main reasons for ignore the election of Mister Wetang'ula and later wanted the election to be found. Mister Wetangula said that the allegations of giving a bribe was reduced by the Director of Public Provider Tobiko after Judge Francis Gikwarning wants the Senator to be investigated. "The investigation conducted by the intelligence director after the order of Mister Tobiko did not get any mistakes. The allegations were revealed to lack any truth and the case was supported and that is why we are doing elections again on December 19, "said Mister Wetangula in a meeting with journalists in Bungoma. Metangula condemned some of the media for the use of his political enemies so as to announce that he is not supposed to take the position of the office. The Senator said that he will not be shocked by the threats of his enemies and insisted that he will announce to the residents of Bungoma. He said the bad interpretation of the law and the court of Appeal has caused a situation of anxiety among his followers and those of the union of Cord. Mister Wetangula revealed that KCA in the city is following music, to say that he will stick with other leaders in the union of Cord in contesting for the presidency in the year 2017. At the same time, Mister Wetangula condemned the Jubilee government for failing to provide an appropriate leadership for the nation. "The controversial construction projects of the railway and computer is undoubtedly the ability of Jubilee to continue leading," said the Senator. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_64279596 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Makonda: Saateni police officers who came out the documents "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Sophia Mwambe "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 29 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda has ordered the police force, the special region of Dar es Salaam, to arrest all land officers who participated to fake land documents, including changing the judgment and court orders. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, he has directed the land officer of that province, Edger Msolla, presenting the names of the officers to the commissioner and police in the region of Dar es Salaam, Simon Sirro, so that action can be taken against them. He has also urged the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to observe the Nakoroa Investment company Limited, so as to look at his legitimacy because of being accused of being involved in land disputes and found that it is involved, it is abolished. Makonda gave those instructions in his last meeting in his 10 days tour in that province, that took place at Mabahoma grounds, Kinondoni district. Makonda reached that decision after the resident of Mlalbeit, Joyce Machange explained that he was married four houses of his late father who was alleged to be on 200,000 shillings. The resident claimed that those houses were given 35 days after his father died and the author of Nakoroa Investment Limited. He said, the order of the land court asked the debtor to change the cost so as to prevent the houses being sold. He added that after the incident presented the issue at the Provincial Commissioner's office, and Makonda handed it to the land officers so as to listen to them. Msolla said in the complainant, Nakoroa Investment company presented his documents, they discovered the agent of the court who was appointed to change some of the courts and refused to sign. Msolla mentioned the Licence Officer of Kinondoni, Artinius Rugged that he was concerned to change the residential license without being satisfied with the complaints when he arrived at the meeting, he was arrested by police. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_72785689 Ehhe and the tomatoes continue to come. As he continues well, we had at the farm, he has come from a little he returns there. Ohh has since been in physical as I hear that he wasn't heard very well, the body was poor Masiku I was waiting for it but sa we are on the farm we win with me when we take home. When a child is ohh and now if you don't know it's not good that you will keep quiet for the farm, you know the body is trying to push it He returned to nasty, it will speculate that no one will work for himself. Even when I decided that there is a little money I had to get in the end of this month
query3583 beautiful girl Kenya
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_61200505 Tudor exercises to avoid diseases "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by editor "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 19 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The newspaper in yesterday's edition had a story with the headline that "eating foods that do not affect many." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the news, for now many residents of big cities in the country like Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Tanga, Mwanza and Mbeya, are facing non-infectious diseases easily because of the use of food and drinks that do not consider better nutrition. Also, the news explained that the lack of food that is not nutrition, causes various diseases such as diabetes. The problem of consumption and excessive consumption is largely in major Cities due to the Disease of Food and drinks, and also lack of time and areas to do exercises. We support the statement of health professionals, including non-communicable diseases, that there is a large number of people with those diseases, but they don't know if they are being sent. One of the specialist doctors, Doctor Rose Hyness, says the investigation that was done by the institution that deals with non-communicable diseases in the country, has shown that in Arusha province, 30 percent of adults, are faced with diabetes, which are caused by not doing exercises. Furthermore, we support the statement released recently by the adviser of health issues in the country, Doctor Ali Mzige that the current system of life, affects and destroyed many human beings. Doctor Mzige mentions several issues of doing so as to improve health and avoid various diseases that are not necessary to include leaving smoking cigarettes and drinking alcohol. According to Doctor Mzige, smoking of cigarettes are in a big possibility of getting more than 40 diseases, which are dangerous to their health, such as ugly, cancer, tuberculosis, heart, oral and eyes as well as hair-dropping, while drinking alcohol causes 60 diseases such as the liver and reducing 4 CD for AIDS patients. We are fulfilling the health testing activities to continue in all provinces in the country, because many people are patients, but they don't know and they don't want the hospital to be treated until they are overwhelmed; a situation that is causing sometimes to lose life. It is clear that many people, especially low-income earners, do not have time to test their health due to the focus of life. Many of them feel a mild, hample drugs or buying drugs in drug shops without testing. When they are overwhelmed, they may be in the hospital and were found with serious problems, thus it is difficult to be treated. We ask the government to continue to enable the citizens to test their health; and if possible it will build a special day of testing the health, as it reaches the day of cleaning that is every end of the month; and a day of planting trees nationally. We insist that the major methods of dealing with various diseases must be reversed and exercising their body daily. We do exercises without limits. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58225259 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The guy killed rabsha by being deprived of the meat to the quarterback. A man killed a tragedy when he attacked a one hotel attendant in the city by accusing the meat of chicken. The guy was among the people who attended the workshop in that restaurant and at the time of the afternoon, who attended the workshop, they were waiting for the queues to take food but they were informed that they would have more than chicken meat and a hotel attendant. It is said that after a guy wearing a food, he wanted the attendant to give him two pieces of chicken meat but he refuses. "The guy tried to catch him in a cooking pot to get out of meat on the second piece of chicken meat but the attendant blocked him and that is where he was planted by anger," said the quake. It is said that the guy tweeted the attendant and the tension starts between them. The queues were confused when the two were confused and crush food. "SELF-employed is SELF-employed and it's not to manage someone and to GET Food. We have given this food and this is a conspiracy that you have to do every day of putting the people their right is never seen, "he said. I had three elderly people and he went to the county's organizers to intervene and divide them. And Oscar quarterback "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2622 amending the constitution
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_68074977 Morsi's case was heard again in Egypt "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. November 2, 2014 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A court in Cairo yesterday started to listen to the case of the president who was removed from power, Mohamed Morsi, and 14 Muslim Brotherhood members. They are accused of inciting dangerous attacks against protesters in December 2012, the national television said. Mr Trump Said. Morsi and his colleagues are accused of inciting violence and issued an order to killing opponents who were protesting outside the State House against a constitutional resolution that was passed by Mister. Morsi, November 2012 and expanding his administration. According to China news agency, Xinhua, the riots left nearly eight people dead. The security situation was taken away from the University of Police, where the case was driven. Muslims have been holding regular protests demanding Mister. Morsi was returned to power since it was launched by the army in July, calling it a "coup." However, those Muslims have met a massive crackdown, where hundreds have been killed and thousands arrested. The Muslim Brotherhood, which Mister. Morsi dating, was announced a terrorist party in December by the country's Government. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_91896112 28 November 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kili STARS entering the province today with our writer, Nairobi, the national team of Tanzania Mainland (Kilimanjaro Stars), sponsored by Kilimanjaro beer today is back in the field to play with Zambia, in the opening match of the Chalmers Cup tournament. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kilimanjaro Stars and Zambia will play to contest for three points in a game that will be played at the MACHAKOS stadium that is in the outskirts of Nairobi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That team of Tanzania Mainland has planned to win with three points that will put him in a good position in that tournament. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking about that game, the head coach of Kili Stars, Kim Poulsen, said his team is prepared well for that game. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said his squad has done ma o e z i'n, amb a y o will enable you to give opposition against Zambia that has been praised for the best level of soccer in Africa. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "We are prepared well and I hope my youth will not let us down and they will do well for starting the tournament well," said Kim. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The coach of Denmark said apart from those preparations, he hopes that the game will be difficult because Zambia is a stable team that has been doing well in different competitions. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. But he said his players can get challenges because the field that will be used for that game has a normal grass. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said Kilimanjaro Stars has been using fake grass in preparation for its matches at the Karume Stadium or National Stadium, Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Kilimanjaro Stars will depend on players like Mrisho Ngasa, Amri Kiemba, Erasto Nyoni, Kelvin Yondani, Said Morad, Athuman Idd and Salum Abubakar. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Also, from Frank Domayo, Himid Mao, Haruna Chanongo, Ramadhan Singano "Messi," Farid Mussa and Elias Maguli. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the opening match that was played yesterday afternoon, the national team of Zanzibar scored 2-1 goals in the tough game that had competition. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_71540942 And a number of newspapers that have been watching please do something that doesn't matter to my view that he didn't have to get into this word and be. A corner that is said to be said. They have also been directed and we were inappropriate. Brotherhood is to take a child to get another person who needs to give birth to come, he saw his different upbringing and it doesn't give birth. That women Saba is enough to go back to the topic The wrong things have continued, the law says that a child is himself even putting a sister to drop down after it is mistaken as an adult. Can a sister tell me: I screamed with what our Parliament is. We see that the child is back home That has happened to a while. They had come here to see that parents are not enough. And The response of parents would like to know that the child is right? Which Now, you find out why the child could know her when he refused to know the old people say. Every child has a father, something that I can do with it because I have not got this and to look for the theft of the children every day, you have given birth tomorrow, that you have given birth and then at the end of the day they believe that. You as a parent must take a responsibility to ensure that the child gets food, a child is going to school where you are suffering and others know that the two children may be children whose father are still unable to come here there are rapists who were abandoned by the children when we do something like the one said that we went to teach religion. The teaching of the children whose age has not yet been able to hold something you can do something you can do things, let us help them what he comes to take down, we don't know that he can help the creatures that will be David now that is what I used to charge if there is education The child's children will not ask them as well as we have worked with the capital to start being treated as they deserve to be released on how to do even in the media like that there is a lot of Concern that we need to give education a day for children and women to know what they want to give birth to the child's upbringing and even it will be good for women who like to give birth to them, they should stay in power he will stay. She tweeted: But that caused a good character And for mothers and mother Recording the debate denied a little bit, maybe we will meet a lot of people that's why they take the child because of who is wrong with what we were going to take my son on no. I request it They don't wait for men, if they call themselves a man, the problem is an economy sometimes causing it to have gone up in the morning when you get to work and home you left now due to that modem. At the same time with him because you leave home Paulo anything will be with him living in the condition of the Prophet in failing to use the children and at the end of the day it will bring yourself to them.
query1421 the most important thing
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_37054393 No We can say it's hard not if you are in peace for peace and every day I am trying to sit and end up with my writing and writing that you are not. It offers ALAT You can take it like something But we are saying now billion john alcohol isn't gone to where it is far because there in a box I heard that in a box. You are supposed to do what is from that box when you want to come from and look for money is in line even so far as we reach it, I am going to look for the truth of something to give you an example we heard, I have not understood that when it was attacked Mister Mpoki the government not to give a comprehensive report everything but media is the long when it came to give a three when he is gone down and you will tell you. Viewer: Will he take a take Even if you are drinking and at the end of the time of worship to those on loans is available to stop so they are going on.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_62510135 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Grahamstown: South African city where the feelings of discrimination is still intense on May 31, 2012, there is a big and clear issue among the mixed communities of South African citizens, the remains of racism. In everyday life, there are still people who are seeing is satisfactory or Zambians, there are those who claim to cry for Africans and who don't have stories and lives of speculation such as coloureds. When you meet and trying to see a white man, it is normal to be told that you come from Africa, especially after introducing himself that you are Tanzania, Mozambique, Zimbabwe or any African countries. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For them, South Africa is not part of Africa, perhaps it's a piece of Europe that fell in this continent! In Grahamstown, the situation may be apparent. In this town there is a hall of disko named Rats and Paraguay, (mouse and Kasubi). Here, those visiting are empty Europeans. His neighbor is at the Equifrium Hall whose opposite is African (black) and their music is the origin of this continent. This town which is the headquarters of Makana Municipality, on how it is seen is the same as any other one in Europe in the weather of uberity and built. But as Zambians seem to be more, they believe that is where to them! When you end up in the middle of this year and you think it has got a real state of life in this nation that has built after through the rule of racist, you will have ever reached a decision; because things are more than that. Mister Mbuleli Mpongole said that he is a Xhosa and a host in this area, and his work is taking round the tourists. Without chew, he says: "If you end here you have a real life situation, the real situation is on Twitter. But before that, he took to the building that was built for a ship as a memory of honor to the thieves that arrived in Africa for 1800 and their contribution and generations to develop the nation of South Africa. The Building was opened in 1962. Perhaps in showing that discrimination is still abandoned, Mister Mpumalanga gives a different translation of this building. He says: "This is a ship that came with it (mastermind), there is a day we will take them to them. How come the sea and return to them, we don't know, because we are not calling you! " But he also points out the Anglican church building that was built for 145 years, due to the fact that Africans were carrying bags and other construction equipment by walking on foot and sometimes bread of being fired by animals from the Indian Ocean. He blamed that the current government, under Blues, has not stopped revenge and if he would have made it. He asks why the government should give the same amount of allowance for survival in Europeans and Africans (Blacks), despite the fact that during the Blacks regime, they got half of what they were given to white? In the Swahili area of Makana, that is where the Blacks live. The majority of them are rapists. When I was there, I was trying to connect with the Mwenge area you will be at home in Dar es Salaam, but it is different because while South Africa have been organized. However, life is hohe doesn't go home. "Life is poor. Many of these houses are stalls, but for now the government has developed the housing for the disadvantaged ones. We called Mandela's houses, later it will be called Mbeki's house and I think that for now they will be called Zuma's house; because everyone gets into his name, "says our host Mpumalanga. These houses are mixed. There are those that have been built on the support of the government and it seems beautiful, but there are also iron sheets. The most popular chapter of these are that almost many have electricity and are striving to have domestic furniture, and sometimes sets on television. Also, this area is the one where alcohol is indigenous, popularly known as the name of the U.S., huts. Another twist is that, here is no Mchaga store, all of them are forced to go to buy things in big shops known as malls, even if it is a thigh of chicken and chips. That situation reminded me of the step of Dar es Salaam and Mwanza to dismiss them. I wonder; the move was for the benefit of who? Because this is taking place, the shops of this type (malls) were ongoing to take it to the country. Ms J.W. Bouser is a lecturer at Nelson Mandela University, located in Port Elizabeth. He says that in these Swahili areas, there is no peace, and it is not safe to visit. The situation is visible and the fact that they are rare (Zambians) in such places. When you enter the bar in these areas, where even the music is beaten, you discovered something else; it is that the bottles of beer here is big for more than those that were used to Tanzania for half a liter (500 mililita). Here is just three quarters of the liter (780mililita), but in the Europeans, the ability to reach 380, although the price is almost one of the most effective differences. Lord Vulkie Teyise, in charge of the Tita Memorial Center between Waxhosa and Zambians on April 22, is showing part of this center where Blacks were working in the era of the Muslim thieves. He says no black was allowed to move there more than those arrested against the rulers. He says that in those fights, also known as Grahamastown war, Blacks were killed. During the fight, the leader of Xhosa, Nxele was arrested and later went to prison on Robben Island where he died in prison. It is in the prison where Nelson Mandela has also been jailed. In another area of this city that has been built, there are Indians and many of their houses are African. Mapokela says: "I don't know why these people are volunteering, and their houses have this color. We are our colors we are trying to show that the father of the city has gone to work in mines, therefore the community gets his wife! But they don't know what they mean. They are people to engage with each other! " But maybe their lives are in this municipality, are those of the macheters (Coloreds). They are their houses are cold and pieces of iron sheets, and that is where drugs are being sold and dirt ended. It is poor life and nothing you will be compared to us. Although there is one high school teacher claims that racism stood in South Africa, and that what remains is just a feeling, but the real situation shows that the sin is still in this country with great development in Africa. Maybe what to ask or ask is President Jacob Zuma's administration has the strength in running this country, and to take this sin? But another one is that when you see the poor in this country usually is hohoon, because he does not even have a stir. The big land has been taken by the rich, and the confusion is that they are buying their needs in the alls with great names. Do we know that the development we are running for? I ask that; because we have begun to give land to investors, and we are also dismissing them to allow them to pave way for major foreign investors. "IT's "IT's "IT's "IT's
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_59800289 The presidential candidates choose the sponsors of Mwanza Jun 24, 2015 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In a situation that was not expected, the cadres of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) who are calling for presidency have shown great discrimination in finding sponsors inside that party in Mwanza province. A thorough investigation that was done by Good Citizen this week has revealed that many candidates have continued to flow near every day in two of the seven districts that form the province to search for sponsors inside that party. The districts that many CCM cadres have been arguing almost every day to look for sponsors in the process of requesting to be appointed by that party to vie for the presidency, is Nyamagana and Ilemela that form Mwanza. Until the day before yesterday, Nyamagana and Ilemela districts have been blocked with more than 10 candidates, with five others, some of which have not been reached completely and others have been blocked or have one presidential candidate, or less than three. Other five districts that seem to be chosen in those movements of searching for the leadership of the country, Kwimba, Misungwi, Magu, Ukerewe and Sengerema. The secretary of CCM, Kwimba district, Tabu Lugwesa, told the newspaper that until the day before yesterday there was no presidential candidate who arrived in that district to look for sponsors. "Until now there is no presidential candidate even one who came to look for sponsors here, Kwimba, I don't know why, maybe it is because our district is next to you," said Lugesa. Likewise, there is no presidential candidate through CCM who arrived in Ukerewe District which is the island in Lake Victoria to look for sponsors inside that party. The chairman of CCM Ukerewe District, Ali Mambile, has told Good Citizen that it may be geographical of the district that has caused the presidential candidates to flee in the process of searching for sponsors. "While (Ukerewe) has not arrived for a presidential candidate even one, we haven't seen us, but I think even the geographical we have done is a problem, I don't think there is a candidate with bad intentions and we," said Mambile. On his part, the secretary of CCM, Magu district, Bangcry Pangobu, has said that until the day before yesterday, the only presidential candidate who was in that district is the minister of construction and the member of parliament of Chato in Geita province, Doctor. John Magufuli who got 38 sponsors. However, Pangobu has explained to not be surprised by that situation as a result of what he explained that the procedure of finding sponsors are not at home nor to marry his presidential candidate in the district to go. "There is no transparency, where candidates should go to look for sponsors, so far as Magu has come to Doctor. Magufuli alone, came on June 10, this year when he got 38 sponsors, but they may come to other sponsors, "said Pangobu. Also in Misungwi District, the cadre of CCM who went to look for sponsors are the former Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo only who got 45 sponsors. The secretary of CCM, Misungwi District, Donald Magessa, has confirmed that saying "who came up to look for sponsors until now (the day before yesterday) it is the only Muhongo, I see that he is very careful, he does not want a celebration." At least in Sengerema District until the day before yesterday, it had attacked three presidential candidates who went to look for sponsors inside CCM. According to the secretary of CCM Sengerema District, Mohamed Shabani Mohamed, the party cadres who arrived in that district to look for sponsors are Doctor. John Magufuli, Ambassador Ali Karume and William Ngeleja, who is the member of parliament of that area. While those districts, especially Kwimba, Ukerewe, Misungwi and Magu have been faced with "discrimination" in Nyamagana and Ilemela districts have continued to lead by being attained by many CCM cadres who are demanding the presidency. The secretary of the parents community of CCM Ilemela District, Faisali Dauda Hamadi, has said that until Monday, nine cadres had arrived in that district to look for sponsors. Hamadi has mentioned those cadres of CCM to be Professor Mark Mwandosya, Makongoro Nyerere, Judge Augustino Ramadhani, January Makamba, Edward Lowassa, William Ngeleja, Stephen Wasira, Luhaga Mpina and the farmer from Kigoma province, Elidephonce Bihole. However, Nyamagana District is leading up to now in Mwanza province by attaining the cadres of many CCM who are demanding the presidency. The secretary of CCM of that district, Elias Mpanda, told the newspaper that more than 10 cadres of that party who have been reached in his office to look for members of sponsors in those races. According to Mpanda, the presidential candidates who arrived in that district for that purpose is together with Frederick Sumaye, Doctor. Asha-Rose Migiro, Lazaro Nyalandu, William Ngeleje, Edward Lowassa, January Makamba and Bernard Membe. Some of the cadres arrived in those districts to look for sponsors so as to help others for the celebrations that were dominated by various celebration. Those who came to look for the sponsors as well as Judge Augustino Ramadhani, Professor Mark Mwandosya, Lazaro Nyalandu, Stephen Wasira, Makongoro Nyerere, Luhaga Mpina and Elidophonce Bihole. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_40444208 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This phone use should be banned from some of the citizens who need to be taken to a special school for the use of mobile phones. Since entering the country for those phones every year there has been a new issue that emerged from the growth of technology. While the phone was able to send a text message, at least the users were civilization than it is now where there are phones with different ways of sending text messages, voice and pictures. Some phone users have gone far beyond that they can beat anyone without his consent and send anyone else. Everyone has been a photographer, even when an accident is Going to take pictures like him is a journalist. The worst thing is when the doctor is taking a picture of a patient and sent it to WhatsApp groups. Citizen, Dar es Salaam "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2002 ledger account book
query2000 deputy mayor
query3530 blood pressure medical condition
query3532 reduce curtail accident mishap
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_14670209 AHH truly mym AHH to take away from all the thoughts and thoughts, not what I heard about me. Ohh halo ehhe to take it. Ehr It's not only the names they got only two people but all the people did not get married and they didn't get to eat and get to eat and get it better. They didn't want to have a vote at this time I am saying this time I am saying this time I went for a little bit and don't go to him, you don't want to be a m. When they were enough even today we were there we would have reached five five stars every person and we were where he was a mym They will use the application. Mi we got the first lot
query1802 rent house
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_22979507 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Samsung Galaxy Note 7 will be shut down "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. October 12, 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Samsung has called on people with the Galaxy Note 7 phone to shut down immediately while doing an investigation to determine why those phones, even those that the company had confirmed that it is safe, are on fire. The South Korean company have said that they will stop all the selling of those phones. Samsung urged people who had bought a total of 2.5 million phones in the month of September to return to shops after many customers complain that the battery of those phones were burning, however, reports have occurred that the phones that were alleged to be safe is burning too. One man in Kentucky, the United States, says he woke up and got his bedroom with a smoke caused by a new Note 7 phone that he had got after returning to the previous. A few days earlier, the passengers on one plane in the United States were asked to leave emergency on the plane after the Note 7 phone started offering smoke. Samsung has suspended the sale of Galaxy Note 7. "Because the safety of customers is something we are paying more attention, Samsung will urge all distributors and its suppliers all over the world to stop selling and also exchange for the Galaxy Note 7 phones, the investigation comes," the company has said. Samsung says phones affected are nearly 2.5 million. According to the company, 45,000 Note 7 phones have been sold in Europe and many in England. More than 75 percent had been transformed by its owners, given another Note 7 or other Samsung plants. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_33701643 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Abdul MKEWAGE "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The condition of the presence of the general elections of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) that is expected to take place in August this year is the one that is mentioned by some of the analysts of soccer issues in the country to be one of the something that produces a lot of bugs right now. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He wanted to return to the benzene to some of the leaders and other leaders wanting to get into power has made leaders who are in power right now to forget their responsibilities to Tanzania and focus on campaigns to defend their seats. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This is what makes football making a lot of fun, not another. Every leader in power is looking at how he will be part of the next mainstream leaders. If you don't have the leader of this way, expect to meet with the "movie" you are witnessing this time. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The events that we continue to see is due to lack of concrete leadership that would be able to prepare well and to manage the ball themselves so as to avoid the situation. If chief leaders are not concerned about what is going on, who will come to the unknown location? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. If we have come here, we don't have a verness. The leaders of TFF have been held hostage and they are running as they want. If we had a strong leadership in charge of the interest of soccer in Tanzania, we should hear that we heard about it now. We were focused on talking, writing the success of Tanzanian soccer, but it is not right, everyday is just a problem! "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While the leadership of Jamal Malinzi led to a trap, the problems are continued to increase. Whenever it ends one month to another month, the problems are confronted as months. They rarely ses without any problem inside our football. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. What is trying is to be said that leaders themselves have been keen to meet with stakeholders to deal with challenges, instead the leaders have been hiding in their offices being beaten by "AC." Although the advice should not be treated, but the stakeholders are required to be heard. I do not believe that we can make one house then let us wait for them. I didn't believe it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Forget about all the previous problems in the past, the issue of Simba and Kagera Sugar clubs scrambling for three points is something that makes the headlines for soccer, though yesterday the issue was expected to be released. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This issue has been heavy and made up to the people of different soccer institutions to intervene and others showers up to the fingers. But the size of this issue has been led by TFF and its committees which have been unable to manage within their regulations and instead the issue moving to the will of private individuals. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The regulations of the Tanzania Premier League (TPLB) are very clear if it will be known as a player has played three yellow cards in the past games are not allowed to play the following game and playing his punishment is known. And if a player did not have a card basically there is no case that can make people more careful to share it all the time. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The report of the referee is the last decision to believe in every different event and the ethics of the soccer game must be reached within the report. It is said that in that report of the referee shows Kagera Sugar player, Mohamed Fakhi, got a card in his team's game against African Lyon, but the player himself has opposed that he was not given a card that day. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The confusion of the 72-hour committee by the committee of law and dignity of players about that issue is from where the referee is unable to be heard? A shame that is in our football were called up to African Lyon that was played by Kagera Sugar, went to be satisfied with the evidence. If we do not want to trust the report of the referee we will believe the report of someone else? "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The rally together, Fakhi, African Lyon and bringing in front of the referees is to look for evidence of violence that cannot give you the right answers to the report of the concerned game. TFF and his committee had to comment on this issue by using only reports so that everyone is getting in the development of building the Tanzanian football. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is only Tanzania where you can meet with this situation and those of Tanzania are not aware of it. But despite this situation, it is now time for TFF and its committee to review some of its regulations and to leave the team to win the table. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It makes the flavor of soccer to the team that gave everything that we have for the purpose of winning the match on the field and later they have denied the victory. TFF and his committees are not doing well the regulations of the team that will make acts of this way to meet the fine, but the winning team should stay with their victory. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In this, the members of Simba and their fans have been priority to say even the youth squad "Serengeti Boys" is going to Gabon for the table, but those people were supposed to know the appeal of TFF to the youth team to the Confederation of African Football (CAF) and Simba's appeal to TFF and its committees are two different appeal. These are two different appeal. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Congolese national team of Congo DR, broke the taboo for making a player with a big age "bold." And the punishment for this way are open to CAF that is why we did not feel the noise from the Congolese fans, they knew they have done an offense and they need the punishment for removal. But the part of Simba is the issues of torture only, but not Kagera Sugar denied their victory. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The issue of Simba, Kagera Sugar needs wisdom of what was written by the referees of Kagera Sugar and African Lyon. All the other we see, we will be fool. It doesn't matter whether a player was given a card or not given. It doesn't matter if the referee wrote a player he got a card or didn't get. We need to trust the referees reports. If we do not believe their reports will help. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_55072615 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Pasta mbaks and the killer who ran away the case against the case against a result of a high school girl with the intention of switching off the accusations of raping and married yesterday when it emerged that he ran away. The judge of the Supreme Court of Kitale Joseph Karanja was informed that Pasta Charles Nyachwara, who was charged with a bond of 500,000 shillings and a sponsor of equal amount to that, may be run out of the country following the charges facing him. Judge Karanja instructed his sponsor, Mister Zacharia Maosa, to be accountable and to ensure that the suspect is in court to answer the charges that will be held on October 23, 2014. Previously the court refused the request of PAG's request to be released on bail for violating the instructions of the bail that was given the rape case started before the murder. Pasta was accused of insulting a girl until he died on July 7, 2011, to shut down the conflict in court between him and the family of the deceased. According to his own evidence last year, he said that he killed that girl after his efforts to resolve the issue failed to succeed yet it had affected his religious responsibilities. And Philippines "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_47325052 CCM will be history with this nonsense Dec 30, 2015 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Last week I said that it is impossible to have a political party that wants the consent to lead the poor people then it should be running as a rich party. For a long time now CCM has been running its political issues as it does not know the importance of those who are led or who got consent to rule. The party that has decided to leave his ideology of liberation and loss of ideology, it will not be able to continue doing so, because those who decide whether or not to be in power is the last decision. For several years there has been a tension in the ruling party about what is needed to happen in every aspect to be political, economic or social. The tension that was there and which will still continue the existence of the situation that we witnessed in the general election campaigns that brought him to power the fifth term government of Doctor John Magufuli. No doubt, even a little that the ones who call themselves blood members are aware of that and they have already made an evaluation to know why the party whose candidate was winning for a landslide in the past years suddenly, getting a 58 percent victory which is a sign of the collapse of the party's popularity. There is no doubt that the technique that he used Doctor Magufuli during the campaign to market himself without leaning against his party was good and invented with political professionalism. I know there are some who will not be impressed by the fact that it had the candidate that he was presenting himself as him but the truth, you will discover the truth and that is when that candidate will emerge with victory. After that victory, one issue is very clear and very important to CCM, it is that after that happened? Is the party a nanny to stay silent and pretending that it doesn't know what happened? What has happened to what happened now, which way is right to assured them to remain in power as the ruling party in the coming elections? Evaluation of the situation with the expectations of the party in the future is an important thing that should be done by calm heads without papara or mage. It should be remembered that CCM before the system of many political parties to be returned here in the country was the party. The meaning of the party is a political system which the party is not only one in the politics of the concerned country. That party is what we stand by the government to implement the policies that are derived from the ideology of the party. The party does not have the last term in every issue of political and social life in the concerned country. Nothing is being done by the government that the party has not accepted. That administration system made sure that the party has a strong and great ability to even continue the government in every sector and that is the reason they were formed secretariat of various economic, security, money etc. The secretary of the secretary were the main units of the party that we can compare with what is known as the day of the day to open up (think tanks). These are teams that are made by experts who have great ability to enact policies that are taken to government officials to resolve them in actions. The party to hold the power of government leadership means that nothing has not been given the blessings of the party that can be implemented in the country. That is how the situation was before the political reforms of our country in ninety years and for sure the conclusion was in the amendments of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania which agreed to be returned to the political system of many parties here in the country. It is clear that CCM was not prepared to enter the political system of many parties and its results are that many things done to be done just without a good procedure that would be assured of even in the political competition. The party which had the ideology that is in charge of the interests of the weak, farmers and the workers is to be released on the hands of the pari-colonial agents. That took place in an environment in which the international paramedics had been united around the world and there was every kind of pressure to make sure the political parties of the left-wing political parties as it was the Party of Revolution are telling the orders and run their minds. CCM still got a lot of application in a very basic thing that is ideology. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_13960675 Nokia phone, a single one You put it one day You will get another free day for his part, the director of Nokia Company, Samson Majwala said that those phones are aiming for the people of every income and easy to use the long walk. Two July is being sold for phone lines every time that there is a must that socialism is within and the other is outside the time for customers who have two lines will have the ability to use the phone is open from the time of the person died of Next year. Serengeti beer company, details has announced two winners of a motorcycle and a motorcycle in its tenth draw with one of the traits that are not under arrest. Those winners have been found through the draw that was played yesterday at the Serengeti beer manager, Allan chtuned in front of the representative from the board of aming in the country. Mwita Manyara to the age of twenty-three, a resident of a school in Mwanza Province who is a student of the teaching college, has won a gift of another energetic gift that has also been traumatized that this has given why our three offices that Serengeti is looking for. And how to participate is that all the ten and eight-year-old projects are reduced to the problem being checked under a threshold, looking for a free character or they will be able to make a number of messages he said. He is posting those procedures to the number one third one seven and he can win Cash Equal to adopt In the draw, a small entrepreneur from Morogoro Province, Innocent statements aged twenty-five years he was lucky to win a motorcycle gift. Speaking soon after the draw, he has called on the citizens of more than ten years to continue participating in that promotion since it can uplift the economy. I reported from the house of love Msuya of ten. And the Airtel mobile phone company has launched a new service known by the name of a balance if its efforts in fulfilling the intention of continuing to provide freedom to speak to its customers in the country, Said declined. Airtel Relations Manager Jackson Bana He told journalists in the city of Dar es Salaam that the balance will enable all Airtel customers to borrow a small balance and pay for a small cost by sending the word balance to one five four. The service that enables any EPA customer is a bad style to the nation. It goes down You pay a little that you are talking more different from the others it is that you are paying a lot of money to buy a lot of money you are talking about, we were the same people, it is not yeah, through its Airtel money service which enables entrepreneurs to invest in its agents in the country by getting two times in June up to July for any transaction that will go. From the film Said the pair Your party
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_26084989 Majority - Monduli build a classroom, don't show the children "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Veronica Mheta, Monduli "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 06 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The prime minister, Kassim Majaliwa has directed the leadership of Monduli District Council to set aside money for the construction of classrooms and houses for teachers at the primary school in the district so as to uplift the performance level to students of breeders. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, that community of breeders has been emphasized to abandon the habit of killing female children, instead they should stop them so that later that they can improve economically and that community to get development. Majaliwa gave those instructions after visiting the founder of that school, Meshock ole Maputo, an elder who previously took the decision to build the school as a class one and to elect one of his children who had a primary education to teach her young children after one of her child was hit by a car and died when he went to school more than six kilometers. Majaliwa said that the school with a few rooms should be implemented by building other classrooms, so that the children and the grandchildren of the elderly and those of the school can be able to study and succeed well. He said that he has seen the shortage of classes together with the teachers' houses and ordering the leadership of Monduli District Council to set aside money in their internal revenue for the purpose of building houses for teachers and classrooms in that school. He congratulated the man for seeing the importance of education to her children, grandchildren together with the neighboring children who are studying in the school and called on parents and guardians to stop the habit of killing female children, instead they go to school. The head teacher of that school, Rogate Mbuya said that the school started in the year 2007 under the tree of a tree with 30 previous students, later to get sponsors where up to now it has five classrooms and nine teachers, while the students being 167 among 102 children being children and grandchildren of the elderly. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_90395543 Twenty. The Central African Republic Catherine samba, has said that the general elections in that country has been planned to take place in October will be postponed for security reasons while in New York city where he was attending a general meeting of leaders of the United Nations, the leader has also said he cannot resign Protesters have been demanding the resignation of the claim. He has failed to end the fighting However, the president began to return home early following an eruption of clashes in bangui More than thirty people have been killed in the clashes And the office of organizations providing aid being attacked and robbed of supporters of the Christian militias as well as Anti balaka. They attacked the prison on Monday and sent hundreds of soldiers and militants who were banned in the Republic of Africa has been experiencing a conflict since the rebel group of Islamists have taken to power in March two and ten thousand thousands of people fled their homes for now the nation is headed by the interim government. People with anger under rubble
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_72471238 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Minister Mwakyembe visits the British government and Tanzanians in London on November 12, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Minister of Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has assured the visitors and visitors that the efforts will continue to be done by the government to improve the transport in Bongo. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking in London the day before yesterday at the "annual meeting" of the United Kingdom of Tanzania (Britain-Tanzania Society) and the Tanzania Development Trust Fund (Tanzania Development Trust), he said there is still a lot of things to do since he will be appointed four months ago. Minister Mwakyembe also explained about the discussion of the new constitution that is expected to be mentioned in the year 2015. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Responding to the questions from Europeans and Tanzania who attended the Central Hall, Westminster, a few steps near the British State House, Mwakyembe, who is the member of parliament for Kyela, was informed that one of the problems that tries to find solutions recently is the deterioration of the port of Dar es Salaam. He said the ministry had to change the leadership of that port after the international report that was set in Dar as one of the worst port in the world that does not implement its work. "The port of Dar es Salaam has the ability to grazing the economy of the whole country being done well," he explained to the meeting that listened keenly. "We are surrounded by many non-Sea countries that are depending on transporting its cargo. So then, the Ministry of Transport listening to the whole nation. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While giving several examples of the bad transport situation in the country, Doctor Mwakyembe spoke with inspiration and hope about the construction of roads and various railway. "We have a lot yet to do. Our main railway is very old. From Dar up to Kigoma and Mwanza, for instance, it was targeted in the era of Germans so that it must be made afresh. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He gave an example of a solution to the problem of traffic congestion in Dar es Salaam city where the planned money to fix other ways in the provinces have been used to ease transportation between Ubungo to the city and Makanga to Kurasini (at an affordable price of 500 shillings) and a short period of twenty minutes. While speaking about political developments in Tanzania, the Minister said the discussion in the country is now about the constitutional reforms that "it needs to deal with the life of the 21st century." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While explaining the history of the constitution in Tanzania in the Swahili language of English, this minister who is a law expert, mentioned the important years that 1961 (after Uhuru), 1963 (construction of a new nation), 1965 (union), 1977 (birthday CCM) then 1983 and passed the multi party policy in 1992. A lot of questions were asked about transportation and eating corruption that contributed much to the ongoing accidents causing huge accidents in the continent and the islands. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. And even after his official speech, at the time of tea, citizens and visitors continued to praise him and surrounding the minister asking them for fire questions. The leader did not show any signs of getting tired of the enthusiasm. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Thanking the minister, one of the officers of the British Community and Tanzania, Miss. Valerie Leach (who runs an education activities in Bongo), said that it gives visitors to the heart that Tanzania has the leaders who are conflicting with corruption and corruption as it was the era of Mwalimu Nyerere. Earlier Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe was welcomed by the explanation of the way he did not die twice (car accident and skin diseases) from his stand to try to develop the community. Earlier the meeting was explained different projects that will be advanced by the Tanzania Development Trust Fund. Among those projects are renovated the house of elders Tanga, the development of small-scale industries in the mainland and the islands, youth development that do not have work and equipment for employees of Lindi hospital to avoid cholera. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While explaining his love to help in Tanzania, the strategy of the BTS Community, Julian Marcus said the efforts of members come from private contributions and volunteer without any payments. This Saturday's activities like it was followed by our Ambassador to England, Honorable Peter Kallaghe and the director of London business center, Yusufu Kashangwa. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The BTS was founded in 1975 and Brittney will continue to develop relationships between these two countries. Headed by former President Ali Hassan Mwinyi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The next session of BTS will be held at the University of African languages and Asia (School of Oriental and African Studies-SOAS) London to discuss democracy and media in Tanzania, on 6th December. Every citizen and a friend of Tanzania is welcome. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_62700158 And there are those of those of our rights Let the first even mi is when they have not heard where I have heard but it was done it was not been done, I am not done to bring up the fare you can in other trees. A thousand is a thousand. It's not the same that he went with others yesterday now, we are one of the ones that have been giving them because the youth of the right and then you should know we will need this and we have ninety minutes, many people first in trouble they don't have to come to trees or they are coming to the trees or they are coming to the trees or they are coming to the trees or they are coming. However, I have forgotten that I have done that yesterday was a Job he didn't tell me that you cannot be told me. Yeah. Once there should be an apology and it does not have problems with all the same things, when I will go to I and we will talk to choose the one with it. Who would you ask you to ask this young man from the bottom of the talk. No one in the house there is no lot of things, he told me that there are many things that we do at the moment, we cannot be better to read about the same thing he was telling us of us of us, there is something even told me it's a mm aai. Ohh cause I hear that you are talking about it all the same things then let me do I don't know if your animal is crying, what is it? He didn't count when he calls me not to tell me the disappointing. Right then, so much but you don't use me I will come to us If the same does not have problems we have? The day by The way So that I am not seeing you at all, we are looking at a phone but he is cool, he has no words even mi When you stay tuned!
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_26653538 This is so live: Youth there are more than Tibetan lives "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Angela Semaya "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 02 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Soccer is a game with many fans, especially youths of different ages. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is an indisputable fact that the soccer game has had many fans in the world including the fans of Tanzania who are ready for anything including having gone into money for the reason of getting the game. There is no sin to love sports, but there is a need to put boundaries between encouraging sports and to do the work of bringing development to themselves economically. Because of the sidelines, they're in business where fans have been blogging the results of the popular game like "Tibetan" and they are willing to use all the money they have in order for the participants. Just like this issue to me, it will end up until today I decided to talk about it, it is also as seen as the government that seems to lose the power of the youth who some of them have decided to focus on gambling instead of performing or involved in using the funds they get in betting. The Deputy Minister, Office of the Prime Minister who deals with labor, employment and youth, Antony Mavunde recently explained his disappointment with the behavior of young people who are using a lot of time to specify the results of sports and using a lot of money for a luxury. Mavunde has urged the youth not to lose time to play that gambling and instead they use the money to specify the results in development issues. I join the Mavunde of that, it is not a secret I don't understand the youth or people who do not forget and playing that gambling and lost money that they would have used to do the meaning of development and uplifting the economy. I mean someone is working again to be enough or the suffering gets a bit of wages, the same time he uses to go to a gambling that has no guarantee of getting, the results from the apa, money has lost and he won't win again. Again, others are following the punishment or want to show them to their colleagues that they have them when they are sleeping is a problem, he doesn't know what he does or what he does. When a young man left these things, do things for development. There are places where you know they are young and even the adults found to go and go to Tibetan, you are now talking about non-meaning, until you wonder if these family members and if they have a loss. A whole father or a young man from home is saying you are going to work, and at work they are going to get money for gambling! It's not good enough, you must be knowledge, mind and knowledge, this life is not to play and lose money. You can say it is your work, your money and your decision, if you are okay and if you are traumatised by your problem, but if your life itself is to support you and you have a family, then you get money going to play for a gambling, there will be no one who will carry your problem. The Deputy Minister Mavunde has reminded me, and I open a knowledge, you must have goals in life, remember those who refereed that games, they are doing business, themselves they are losing, you are losing, because the gambling is not a guess. I don't have no dispute with someone who works and get enough money for himself or to fulfill his personal needs and for his family, then he has extra money to play for a gambling habit, but if he has no additional money then he makes his money in that style then I apologise to you. Young people grow, work with the aim of self-raising and bringing development to them in good things that will bring benefits to the private and the community surrounding them. The luxury is at the end and its end sometimes is not good. Work for you. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53404120 AHH again directly on the work that has risen to the family could come. So everyone lt; hes tgt; I remember that it is impossible and we can also be the first thing to do with you as it is with a spokesman but David for all and I work together, I have seen your daily version of the phrase It's really good to come from the lt; hes tgt; in what I can say to be clean, not the ones I started and I remember. We have done in the movie in the groups in the mouth, we live like, but we cannot succeed you that you like to remember one day there is one brother that is called Adam to make him take him and get him in a squad. He told me that they have done a shooting and we like things you want to go to see him and I told him to eat So I take a look at we went to reach we found it was different. The other one were doing. Every Palestinians have Mwakifamba. Peace, I have heard that there is a secret that it is possible that it does not have someone else they choose a bad person, therefore they should not have a request Sunday against it, how did he get it. Mi every first time playing I was for support The support was a doctor was called Regina The Job is what he has done, I would like to take part. December Twitter lt; unk, gt; First and then in power not to also climb with the problem when I worked. Several of which are the mother's law we don't know the debt or sa is the one hundred, we should scrap the people that we don't do, they are not doing an effort. Don't worry then. Nelly is thinking about it. Just after being able to manslaughter To shut down The journey there we have done two and the second to take place at the presidential palace at work as a sister My sister is a writer and instead You will find you that I want to cook like that one and I mentioned that I wanted me because it is the people that I have discovered while using the clothes of fees that like the sister and I read it, I see that here is a little bit of that car. The same story is the same when I tell me first, I wrote this movie but first you look for things I have been seen going to play the music doesn't like it happens. Then I finished sauri We ended up Their tomorrow we are thankful From home because of going to until he was recognized if I don't want to know What challenge is facing them That since he was tweeted, the company's sister is still his sister he has not made Direct wants to do the same as he is writing That's what he said. When it is supposed to know that the one that added one is getting back if I've told me if we have seen this in Bongo movie, there is a lot of words and previously exactly the same thing as I am now, you find that that is up to other adults and that then the election is only one thing I find you, but he cannot get the charge for not only to know how it is not that if he is not a couple of people to come and tell you another person who wasn't. Now that if you want to have a good person and here to be taken care of the title if you want to be transformed. It's good to get what has been written on. Because in making sure that you understand the title they are using it is not an easy job that is maybe the one who has and is preparing to face the sanctity of the sanctity that led to us, we are here at the ICU, then and they came to say that it is one thing that the right thing is for everyone else but he had already written me that I would never forget that even one week now like a lot of house until now, I want to say that I would never forget that even one week now like a lot of house until now I had been tired of it for the news. But at the end of the day I remember that you want a better thing to take the cities of us this is the ones that talk about the bottles that if our company's task Force is not the reason we become a brother when we went to the house after that everything was going on. We ask the perpetrators.
query1713 bread food
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_46733105 My eye: Control over the child "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Stellah Nyemenohi "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 02 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Among the news that was painful in this week, it is this about a church leader in the village of Kaseme in Geita district, who was killed by suicide after allegedly killing her daughter by sprawling Bakora. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Reports are saying that Mbappe is an evangelist from the African Inland Church (AICT), gave a punishment to her 15-year-old daughter who accused him of engaging in violent acts. It is alleged that he sent a seven-year-old daughter while standing on the road speaking in that environment, he started sprayed Bakora. Witnesses claim that he went to home where he blocked him inside and continued to punish them by beating up until he was in the soul. Poor, when he noted that her daughter has been in the soul, he decided to run away and when he arrived for a distance of approximately one kilometers away from the scene, he hanged himself on the tree using a hashtag to death. The eye has witnessed these reports in the press having been confirmed by Geita Regional Police Commander Mponjoli Rodson. The media reports have quoted some of the people who know Mbappy, who many admit to remain with a lot of unanswered questions about this incident. Some told me Mbappe that he was a good believer in a criminal record. For sure it is sad. May God rest his soul in peace and continue to comfort this family that lost two people with a shooter. When this religious leader was in front of justice, the incident that caused the deaths, is a lesson to me and you. It is a great lesson not only to parents and guardians but anyone with the authority to punish them. Of course, questions about the event, where they are stolen from spiritual perspective, the answer comes as a "devil" .there is no doubt that everything with negative results come from the devil. In this event, the devil came to fulfill the truth about the phrase of "anger loss." There are a lot of events that parents, guardians, teachers have been found guilty by giving punishment for anger and the results of assault or killing. There are many reports that have been reported about such events. Among the events that I've ever read in the media is together with the mother's mother in Tabora province who is investigating his child on a banio of charcoal. The four-year-old child was under investigation by sparking careless and ignored at home. A mother reduced the legs claiming that it makes me laugh. If you look at his guidance, there is no one who loves her child. But now, the way used to rudi, was led by anger, the mother was found guilty. Another incident I remember, is one woman in Mtwara province who mocked her four-year-old son for eating gay. He took the leaves, prompting him in the hands, and then went on fire. The mother was interviewed, he supervised the foundation that he took that step to inform the child. Nobody wants her child to save, but also, the punishment was brutal. No wonder it had an inspiration for the negative economic situation. But that is not the protection of this parent to be taken against them. I believe there are parents and guardians that they have found themselves with severe punishment for their children believing it is right without knowing that they can be turning their preachers. I agree that anger is a situation that could affect anyone depending on the circumstances of an issue. But it is understood that, regardless of the crime he made a child or anyone else or the horse of your anger, it will punish them and caused injuries or kill, there is no defense. This is an example of the results of parents and guardians to punish children with anger, because a few days ago the parent Elisha Sumila (35), has been jailed for seven years in prison for the mistake of beating her child by beating him two teeth and caused severe pain. That judgment was given by the resident magistrate court of Ilala district, John Msafiri who said that the court was pleased with the evidence given by the prosecution after bringing five witnesses including the doctor and that the judgment should be a lesson to other parents doing such acts. The primary thing is to learn to control anger at the time of punishing children without caring about various issues that cause the situation. For example, among the worst incidents of parents or killing or injuring their children, you will find some suffering from psychological problems and other economic problems. While everyone needs to control anger in taking any decision, the community should help in saving and save children against severe punishment provided by a person who failed to control his anger. The community is supposed to overcome the style of ignoring a parent, a guardian or anyone who is giving a stern punishment to the child, thought that they are not involved. For instance, for instance, Mbappe is an evangelist, as a community, including her family, would have intervened when he took her daughter, the deaths would not happen. There are people in our community that we live, they are known and is popular by giving punishment including great language to children. But it is common without knowing that one day, those acts can cost the lives of their children. We accept the fact that, anger is poisonous to punish a child or even an adult. Therefore, we should learn to control anger and be so much when we give punishment. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_47989253 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Juventus will defend the crown by growing Atalanta Milan, Italy Juventus won the Italian Premier League title by posting Atalanta by 1-0 on Monday, with two matches ahead of the season. That team, after playing 36 matches whereby it has won 31 matches, being scored three times and was scored twice and collecting 96.AS Roma is following the second position with 85 points and if it will win two matches that are remaining, those youths will have a total of 94 points. Napoli also made a ticket to participate in the qualifying round of the European Champions League for being given a third position in the standings. Three Bologna, Catania and Torno are holding the last three positions but everyone still has a chance to avoid being shaken. Winning the Italian Premier League title is a Portuguese for Juventus that was eliminated outside the European Champions League and Benfica last week. That team defended the crown which won last year but did badly in the European matches. First, they were removed from the round of the European Champions League, Uefa then farewell to the European Champions League in the semi finals. Striker Ang Clarke "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_62597418 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Each of us contribute to our country's status and the arrests "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The images of the country is predicted by the existing circumstances. Likewise, citizens of the concerned nation also have a very big decision on how their lives will look like. Due to that, I wouldn't worry to say that Kenya is a good example of a country "with a stack of waste." Yes, we are just an example the country is known as a result of evil deeds in our society. The real image has been released by the residents of our institutions, especially the authorities of the towns-in-making of their critics and sanitation facilities in the cities. In the past few days, we saw the residents of several cities in the country complaining about the increase of waste - on a level of even failing to continue with their normal lives. What is clear is that only a community is sick. Our illness is moral. For example, despite being given a warning of not driving cars when they drink, the warning is taken away. The cost of not responsible while it has been to continue from road deaths. An example of this is an accident that happened in Salgaa area, Nakuru, on December 31, last year, in which five have lost their lives. Basically, it was noted that some of the youths had lied to their parents that they were going to the church. And when an accident is not immune, they were drink, along with driving the vehicle without a license. For me, the accident could have been blocked, if the regulations have been followed. It is shock that those youths lost their lives while still young. In the book "Enemy of the People" (the Result) writer Henrik Ibsen describes one city in Norway and not responsible for its chief managers. The residents of that town were forced to drink dirty water, as a result of water management unit in that town. Kinaya, the mayor of that town, Peter Stockholm, was on the front line to block one newspaper against the crash. Those supervisors even seem to be ready to give a bribe to one doctor in order to explain the truth about the health effects that water would have had to the residents. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_49707189 And now, in your opinion, you see that this president is getting ready to go and it is supposed to take it, that is what he should go there, or this meeting that is to go or not, your opinion is what you are. Mym It's still the plane to see if the truth is, if he was Innocent or AKO, yeah, how much is it to use yeah. Mym and now mym mym and we see if the views of Kenyans can go on or go or not. We are saying that they don't go, but let us use a good thing to go to yes, even the others to get the same with those who use that time, there is Kenya's rights I don't see corruption in Pretoria. We ehr Ehhe halo ati and it's really the right to be found. So you see that you see that you see that case you should think or go back to Kenya. Please live in a _ c _ c and if you look at Kenya is corrupt. Ohh if you pass the money we should go to a _ c _ c mym halo and you can tell me the meaning of the name Alive in length Yeah, he should go to this International criminal Court Mym
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_22209888 The money we get is buying good medicine we can have. We're going to buy cars When we talk to last year we were that we need us to be given alcohol to adults who have alcohol on each other and we request that we will get a lot of three hundred million so we can finish selling two, we will be able to do a lot of things to ask ourselves to buy a car, we will also be able to get money and the other one will go ahead of us at the moment, so it will be a car they are looking for a few people. Taking drugs Those who are also looking at thirty years you are going through now what we are doing is instead of buying things that have a cost again to use that fund is the claims of citizens to benefit from things are going on well even if using those funds to repair our centers to get if they have gone down, we can do a lot of things my all my things we can put solar those that are not on closed and we have also been able to read a huge refrigerator. But we have a car system for the purpose of using all the things Which will be put on the same way as a big event you can find a lot of money to come back to the citizens who are different from other places that will depend on sixty and twenty percent as we were told that in the session goes directly in other uses of the drugs, you find it has been given a small chance to represent that reputation last week and other uses later but they are coming. And we have been told that one chicken savings in the whole year Stima but what is happening will make when they speak to people, they need a bad name and I am trying to make you or I don't see if a rabbit is not my mind very well but I am making it so that the citizens can see something that is easy for them to do I would be able to walk a lot of members of the members but another one that succeeded in a difference. And at the beginning we reached, we should not agree to agree with the three major things the president is supposed to tell us to do the work of reducing poverty then diseases together with ignorance, but tell us what we do with me and I saw for it. So it may be the same Stronger than me and it's easy to spot everyone can do. That is why our slogan says one chicken treatment the whole year One cannot inge And we Paul bosses And my in-law and your children or they should stand for eight people who are treated ten shillings It has never happened in other community groups, there are students of primary and secondary schools but it has taken a lot of elders Many take actions against them You know what we have and we have to do the job of raising our citizens that you do about the luxury issue must manage the manifesto of our revolutionary party says by centres fifteen Thirty percent of the citizens in every district the whole country have joined. Health Insurance Jan Pictures: We are doing that is to implement the Labour Party manifesto but we Take notice of the party. To say the party has put our manifesto open to all that I have been excited to continue to be excited They should be exempted for free They do that but also to get good services to small children, they do not have a must and it is free when you get to find a check what we are doing is to ensure three things are done. First, there are children who are treated. The free colleagues for all free children to the elderly have agreed The village to pay the elders that are coming from because the pictures will talk to you as a gift is required to contribute to that and therefore in the village there is tax for alcohol and the decline so it is the second day for the year so they did not take care of but in the village in every village of gay bread. Five goalkeepers and five goalkeepers Together with those living in the villages in our digital money they contribute to five shillings So if you see bread has been six. So they don't use that bread and it is now setting up to normal, we have told them because it is very well that things seems to have put in the villages, they have received it and other projects that you only tell them that you get the income that you get coal, you can only pay a lot of money and we have seen to do that. Let us end that photos Like twenty So I went to pay for their children So in that we have done.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_82191430 When I work is many but I will vote for ten o'clock at ten o'clock and the two will be the same let's go to a place where I do and you know it doesn't know what the old man will bring a problem because I want to let us go and let's go to a certain day of my own friend's birthday. At eleven o'clock and lt; hes Twitter gt; do not call for ten o'clock to tell me because you know you must find a person to leave the kids that I should prepare myself to meet and let us go back. When the plan cannot bring a problem because he is gone, I am saying that my elder cannot bring a problem because he is gone to her family, I have now remained alone and now I want to look for someone and leave the children so I know they are safe. The job girl, I gave a little vacation to go to his parents and then he will go back if the Christmas season come. That is okay then I am trying. This is okay to tell the other words they are doing. And I am trying to go in line with that exam? For me start on Tuesday, I pray for On Tuesday, I tell you also that hard it will go through the examination and hope. I will tell me that I gave me every day you know we are my sincere friend I must tell me every day I request to remember. Twitter lt; hes tgt; thanks to AHH not to live at work at work, but I also think about how to change how I get through, how can you change your change. All my friend now tell me what you are doing? Mym ehr Ohh mym Mym and now and now if you look for another and the ones who want to maybe many people get the position of two people not you can call it Ehr I will tell. When I tell me because I also know other hours to stay in this house or the work of walking around the walk, especially during the rain like this one can get a lot of illnesses like this time I'm too tired, I was doing the work of walking to sell things here at all of my products. Ehr What was you doing by the way this work continues And the work is not bad but the benefits do not see if it is good. Now and get it at this time you are doing. When you look for another I see this and then we continue with that I have lost but if the income will be good
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_44589344 Sisters finished the group by giving a strong defeat "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Rahel Pallangyo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 09 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The step of the groups of the women's premier league was completed the day before yesterday at two different stadiums where Kigoma Sisters defeated Victoria Queens, 9-0 at the Kaitaba stadium while Evergreen drew 3-3 goals by Mlandizi Queens in Karume Stadium, Dar es Salaam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. At the Karume Stadium, Ilala, that game that was competitive Evergreen is the first to get a goal in the first minute that was scored by Shamin Hamis. The Evergreen goal lasted for eight minutes and Mlandizi Queens scored by the scorer while Jamila Hassan. Evergreen scored the second goal in the 19th minute scored by Opah Clement that went for a break. The second half started with all teams to make changes that he added the pace of the game, at the 50 minute, Evergreen scored the third goal scored by Zainab Mrisho while Mlandizi also scored the second goal in the 51 minute through Mwanahamis Omar. If they have assured the victory of 3-2, Evergreen players started keeping them down again but Mlandizi did not give up and additional minutes they equalized it through a penalty that was scored by Mwanahamis. At the Kaitaba stadium, the visitors Sisters of Kigoma defeated Victoria Queens for 9-0 goals, which were scored by Tour Lily and Amina Ramadhan scoring three goals each, Sabaha Hashim, and Amina Ally getting one goal each. The league taking place for the first time in the country has involved 12 teams divided into two groups with six teams each. Where three top teams have been qualified for the sixth round. The teams that won the six best steps are JKT, Evergreen of Dar es Salaam and Mlandizi, Coast, Sisters of Kigoma, Marsh Te of Mwanza and Panama of Iringa. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_57334640 Too much First at work when we get in the outside, especially those that use the language of Swahili as you said it is possible that the basic problem became a language that is why people can see it maybe this language is not understandable that is why he ran away if you look for even me. AHH a lot of work he's doing, you try to read English words so that the work is acceptable That's that we are talking about the issue of getting a god in the hands and closing the head until we are crying, you can be as if I say it was a million vegetables. Each one that took this pen is carrying and completely these gifts are together And you see how we want to sell We themselves have not paid Chamazi. We ourselves that we are given when we see if it is normal because it is the language that we are talking about, we want to sell a language that you sit in five years in class and if you will not want to sell the language we want to sell the language that you stay in the next five years, if you are studying you will not want to sell a language that we use in the street we talk in our normal life that we should choose to know what kind of language we don't ignore. All of us Do you want to Mnyamani for genocide in Vingunguti, he is speaking in Swahili that we are selling it to be OUT this year to comfort me. . We greeted each other as a candidate. Of CUF to see To be Swahili as you read school but there are also people called Australian and language owners. Because we read it? We shall tell us that we want to invest, we want them to invest this hour because only one is not only the champions to have done, we have seen it is good by saying it is the competence of the language of a sign that provides, enduring and competent, and competent, why we want to link to families and Australian or what my son come here to eat it. The thing that we will see wants people to know what they scored, what is the money to my uncle.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_18443586 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rumors spread the wife of a luxury while doing love with a man on the side "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rashid Mkwinda "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It has emerged a big rumor in the towns of Tunduma and Vwawa Mbozi district where it has been claimed to be one woman who is a wife to a resident of the Ismy area in Vwawa district in that district, he's been found with him while doing love with a foreign man. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The writer of this news arrived in that town and found big groups of citizens while heading to Vwawa District Hospital in Vwawa District while they heard the tragedy that has been claimed to hit the wife of a man and a resident of Tunduma City. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The citizens who most of them were women were heard saying that the woman is a businessman in the village of Isangu village which is in the outskirts of Vwawa Mbozi, Mbozi district who operates between Tunduma and Vwawa Mbozi. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It was explained that the lovers, the wife and the man (their names were not known) were being bullied for several times not to continue with a bad era where the husband of that wife allegedly noted the relationship of those lovers for a long time. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It was claimed that when he was calling on her husband he took empty axes and brought together with the liver while explaining that if he was true he was participating in love outside the marriage, it will be axed by the liver which he had storage in their room where they are sleeping under the bed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The witnesses continued to claim that on the day of the incident, the wife left him as usual heading to his hometown business in Tunduma City at the border of Tanzania and Zambia where he met with Hawara. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, those groups of people failed to note the truth about the incident by explaining the names of the perpetrators, while the Mbozi district doctor Dkt.Charles Mkombachavoid denied the existence of those people in that hospital and explained that it is a rumor that had been observed since the morning. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Doctor. From the stop, he said that groups of people have been coming up in the hospital for the whole day of the day before yesterday from morning up to the evening, to ask for the event that is related to the truth. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Moreover, after realizing that there is no incident that rumors continued to spread that those people have been transferred to Mbeya Referral Hospital due to Vwawa Hospital failing to divide the situation that was also shaken by nurses and employees of Mbeya Referral Hospital. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rumors of that kind has been spreading several times in various areas in the country where in the beginning of the 80s, Buguruni in Dar es Salaam, there arose a rumor of a woman who brought up drugs to her husband and turning a baby that is currently in mind. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Also in the year 2003 in Mbeya City, there arose rumors of the arrest of one surgeon who was involved in making breast women something that was also not confirmed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_65321283 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The government has a great opportunity to end the killings and support the Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa that religious leaders should stop the murder because our country has entered into a massacre to kill, which in the past years have never happened. We have witnessed the killing of people to be slaughtered like Mwanza, Tanga and Kigamboni (Dar es Salaam). These events do not protest against the theft of property but it suggests it is hate. If the human being of today will stop using the law when it broke out hate between them, these killings will open. Together with that, Majaliwa called and understand that the government has a great opportunity to deal with this because it has state agencies like the police and the army. There are people who are in churches and churches, but they did not stop their leaders because they have their positions. These even being bullied after them, they are still able to implement their hatred. Isitosit there are some who don't like the church nor a donation. Therefore, the government will take action to this deal. God A, Arusha "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_20320630 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 23 October 2013 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. PAC wants the ministry of education education on the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC), has directed the comptroller and auditor general of the government (CAG), to conduct inspection of calculations as soon as possible in the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training to remove the uncertainty of its calculations, reports Anny Kagenda. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That directive was issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the acting chairman of the committee, Mister. Gaudence Kayombo, when he met with the executives of that ministry, including the secretary general, Professor Sifuna Mchome. "We are not saying the money has been given no but we have ordered the inspection to take place immediately so as to identify the truth of your accounts... and that the answers of the general secretary is encouraging, our aim is to get an understandable answers," said Mister. Kayombo and added; "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "For example the ministry has given several hundred million to Mkwawa or in the colleges and education institutions... what we want to look at the reports of there, to find themselves that they should not benefit but we believe that after CAG conducted its inspection, we will sign the problem where he is," he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He added that, mobilization to go to the institution has not been understood and they are conflicting and to give an example that the ministry has taken money to ADEM Bagamoyo which shows one million shillings but the concerned institution will say more or less. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mr Trump Said. Kayombo said it has come during the time of executives in that ministry, to make sure that they help the ministry to do its activities well instead they have been asking the secretary general who seems to have a reliable answers when he is required to do so. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said those executives, in the year 2012, they were given five things to do but surprisingly they have done one thing that is to visit nuclear Secondary School, located in Bagamoyo town, Coast Province and reports that the school needs a fence. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "This school is close to the Park, we advised the fence, that's just what they did but we instructed them to look for higher education fees for students, to look at the possibility of running itself instead of depending on the government instead of the board went with its strategy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Professor Mchome, when he was asked about the confusion of the money he said; "I think this should not be done, but I know that there is no money that was released," he said. Speaking about the issue of collecting loans, he admitted that the big efforts are needed in that collection. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1335 bring change
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_70713772 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. VETA is requested to enge the University of Bagamoyo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Francophone Emmanuel "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 04 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The District Commissioner of Bagamoyo, Alhaj Majid Mwanga has requested the Education and Vocational Training Authority (VETA) to build a technical college in that district for the purpose of helping the youth to develop themselves. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. While closing the business rearing training that took place the day before yesterday at the Education and Fisheries Training Agency (FDA) that is in Mbegani, Bagamoyo where the training was sponsored by VETA, Mwanga said that he is ready to give the authority to the area for that construction. "" We request Veta this Eastern region to take suggestions to the headquarters of your headquarters that we are requesting them to be built a technical school to help our youth, "said Mwanga. He said that together with the education that will be given will be sure of getting milk that will be produced by the students who will get the opportunity to join that university. Moreover, he said that together with the existence of many land disputes in that district, they will ensure that they provide that area for the purpose of helping the development of the nation. On his part, the acting director of VETA in the region, Asanterabi Kstart, said that they will ensure that they are continuing to fund the training so as to grow the issues of business and private income. He said the African Development Bank (AFDB), helped sponsor the training and explained that the graduates are required to use the training to produce employment to other people so as to bring development. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_45911130 Additional questions It is mistaken to know that because all the ones that went to There are many in the villages and that's why this problem is no problem for me when I was on the market It's not a small problem and it doesn't mean that all those who have gone into the system because of our soldiers while on the maize floor. To be a lie, when we see that we are given one thing and go to report the real story Our police forces suggested that it has been given employment We have heard when the winner is a minister of internal affairs how many young people were ousted from a unique difference You should ask why a person makes it bad for his ability not to take it to the employment he will be given. So mi I talk to me when I talk about it. The whole thing that he will hear is to support him because of the illustrations that they are there we say some of them and we made suggestions on the box that we shall see me naimani not but a large percentage of its performance of the police force are supposed to tell the number that I have faith Obama. The bacteria will be able to bury a person with a banner as a banner. The evidence of force require contrary to law Celine Vote as you vote He will go to Temu to say but the elect is not. But our weaknesses, the style of those who are violated that is why even in the report we have discussed the legal limitations that they don't speak one of our big groups so that action can be taken against them. Using otherwise he will lose what he is saying is what we speak right now and it is no doubt whether the constitution of the republic of the United Republic of seventy-seven years will be released until five minutes was thrown before Article ten and third of the evidence is giving us And there are other laws, even where you don't know who needs the children to listen to Kigamboni is where it is the one where I'll be in the tt; unk, gt; human rights have been thrown since I finished, we also thought that three of the three mining judges will take a post with our fellows just if you go to tell us that there is no budget for that. They took the point, I wish you to start with the police force to build a word passport While Bana Work professionally Amazon is uneducated I woke up to protect our citizens. Two different things, the police force is not, I talk about it, I will come back to him three times I have been on the toes and you look at and appreciate from the recruitment starting from those who are in the country not whenever you have a legal conflict, let us know if we want to go ahead more than otherwise we shall continue to lose you, but we have been very tight. The names have to end to the end of this place to talk the morning in terms of life without the head. But the biggest thing that I was looking at the morning in this place is the controversy of the death of the late Samsung nyakia, it is also helping to get involved. Arrests For the owner and The wildlife officers on suspicion of involvement in poaching but which is said according to the news is that a police was beaten by police and KINAPA soldiers. But the situation led to a lt; hes tgt; samsoni to be taken to the harando Referral Hospital where the death broke. The controversy is starting from there is a market analyst but also the chairperson of the association of journalists who oppose the use of drugs and crime today is a bowl and scars here in Anton john in order to continue with the Track to talk in the morning in the tour of the capital as it is that to come together today night. When he was ten and two of the month of January fifty years ago on the date of today in Zanzibar, it was delayed to come back to be traumatised by a god but also the biggest of you got less than three hectares. Like the people of Zanzibar the good morning for all Tanzanians and Buddhists You say it's all good in celebrating fifty years and one if you ask them.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_70372653 Now the government is out of the government's support and pay the destruction of destruction in the national stadium that have been undertaken by fans during various sports events and held at the stadium especially soccer news. Mtenga, It explains: Giving a statement on behalf of the minister of information, youth culture and sports The director of sports development in the country Leonard Thadeo He has said that behavior cannot be tolerated and wanted the Football Federation in the country TFF to investigate and take action to end it. However, he has said those actions that despite destroying the stadium which was built by the government for the help of the government of the people of china is tarnishing the name of Tanzania through that stadium to be locked or games to take place for fans. We have the responsibility of controlling the violence Let's continue to avoid our ground blocked by international federations and those to change the game on the stadium without children Moreover, you will remember that the destruction of forests has been done during many games ago For all the time to write when it comes to the ministry to take maintenance without writing to involve the stakeholders Right now it seems that the destruction of seats at the National Stadium is taking into a character among some artists According to that statement, he is not aware of all the destruction that are found in that stadium starting from now it will be ten million shillings instead of five million shillings which have been charged with the government's statement came after two incidents of destruction are brought to the stadium and caused the destruction of how and first being linked to Simba fans during the game between Simba and Manchester United States and the second event of Yanga fans in their game against Azam Messi. From the top of the house One we are building
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_24828322 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mh.Mwigulu Nchemba doing the tour of Kilombero and Iringa to expand the scope of the production of seeds and research of crops, Minister of Agriculture Livestock and Fisheries Mh.Mwigulu Nchemba, has assured the citizens that the fifth term government of President John Magufuli is prepared to defend the rights of citizens and he will hold any responsibility on agriculture and welfare of the nation. Minister Nchemba said that during his tour he did in the provinces of Morogoro and Iringa in various areas of farmers and farms of citizens and other stakeholders in that sector. The ministry is planning to prepare a good system of ensuring that every citizen is supposed to get input at the time and its availability should be easy. But Mwigulu Nchemba also urged investors in the farms but to respect the procedures of investment, so as to eliminate the bad relations between the men and the citizens. Finally, Mh.Mwigulu Nchemba continues with his tour to inspect the research centers, fields of the guys, livestock and fishing in Mbeya Region from tar.5 / 03 / 2016. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query1930 rebuild
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_43382926 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The acts of theft, robbery have continued to Mbagala Abdul Fumba, Mbagala car, Toyota Noah, was destroyed by a special vehicle, after a knock of a house in Tabata Dampo area in Dar es Salaam the day before yesterday, due to the rubble that fell on the road without being distributed. Picture by Salim Shao editor, I call this call to the police force to take a step quickly because we the residents of Mbagala, Temeke district has now been a normal thing to hear the bullets. Although it is difficult to know what happens, but we have witnessed several people who have been attacked, stolen and injured by being shot. I suspect there is a shipment of weapons that are owned by people or groups and be used in these events. For example two weeks ago people who were not known were heard seven times. These people came from the Chamazi area and the shots showed that they were walking on the road and threatening people every time they were shooting in the air, maybe so that they should follow or not come out to the areas they pass. I think if the police will do a crackdown in collaboration with citizens can use those weapons because these people do not live in heaven but it is here in the world. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_86903381 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The hospital needs doctors to covers... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Majaliwa leads hundreds to bid farewell to Captain Mhaiki... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 300 girls fled to bathy... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He killed the wife and a child for being told to have a carriage... " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. A 30-minute rainbow of a child, broke down 20... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. DC ordered the arrest of a "psyche..." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Five survived the plane... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Prime Minister warned the haphazard construction of Kigamboni municipality... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The heart institution JKCI has attracted many... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Raped as an albino's grave... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yanga semi-finals... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 45,000 came out of the Loans Board to pay... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Simba in the hands of URA... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Three of them exchanged bullets by police in Dar... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Electronic smoking... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Martini will mention that landing in Yanga... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. CBE will set up the Football of Shore... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. JKT will play against Mlandizi Queens... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Human activities affects the lives of duma... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The lung fever is being traumatised... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Lets the assistant coach Ndanda... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Anna Senkoro dies... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. With fistula need to be treated for Zambia... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They are against Rombo... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yet Morogoro rally Bil 3.4 / -... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. CCM Arusha launches a campaign... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The court will use technology to provide justice... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Tell them to pay them"... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "Tell them to pay them"... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. CCM- Limeni crops under drought... "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. You are here: Police for elephants' teeth "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ashdetained Police for elephants' teeth "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Kareny Masasy, Simiyu "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 17 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Police in Simiyu Province, Oliver Paschal (39), a resident of Iceland Village, Maswa Ward, Maswa District, on suspicion of being found with an elephants' teeth with a weight of 32 kilograms, he has noted that it is below his bed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Speaking to journalists in his office yesterday, the provincial police commander, Onesmo Lyanga said the police after receiving gender information, they arrested the woman with two ivory that he had been hiding under the white house in his room. Commander Lyanga said the woman was arrested on November 11th, this year at nine o'clock in the afternoon and explained that he was arrested with those teeth with a weight of 32 kilograms in his room he has planned in Edward Malanda's house. Furthermore, the commander has said that more than 86 cases concerning poaching have been reported from January to September 2015, while 69 cases have been reported to the police from January to September this year. In another step, the army is holding four people with a mistake of taking the law by beating and killing him by stones and white, Manoni Elisha (38), a resident of Ngasamo village urging him to be a thief. Lyanga said 3 a.m. in Manchester's bar in Ngasamo District, the suspects have killed that person on suspicion of different crimes, including the theft of sheep on the case number NGAS / Kilifair / 49 / 2016 which was wanted by the police force. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_66532069 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Cargo cargo strikes in Dar Aug 11, 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The state of safety of products that are imported into the country through the port of Dar es Salaam, especially in the parking lot and downloading goods (TICTS), it is not satisfactory and some of the business people have started to flee the port and start using the port of Mombasa, Kenya, Good Citizen has noted. The investigation that was done by this newspaper confirmed that many business people have already passed through their products through Tanzania, for fear of the theft that can be seen in the port. This situation seems to be affected by the business people from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) who most of them are now threatening their cargo on the port of Mombasa. Those business people who are from Bukavu areas in Congo, at different times have confirmed to be affected by theft at the port of Dar es Salaam. Apart from those businessmen from Bukavu, others are from Lumbumbashi areas where they have fled the port of Dar es Salaam and decided to pass their cargo in South Africa and at the Beira Port in Angola. Speaking about that situation, Bernard Makita, who is one of the officers from the Democratic Republic of Congo in the country, who is also the representative of the Government of OGEM (equivalent to Summer Tanzania) says that situation is dangerous to the economy of the country. "Dear brothers, it is better if the traders have taken the responsibility because the things that are taking place at the TICTS is disappointed because the theft, which was not made in that company," said Makita in shock. He warned that, if that situation will not be worked and to release that foreign company to make sure that the port can be closed for lack of customers and thus endangering the economy of this nation. On his side, Faines Kiwia, who is the Executive Director of Triple. D. that is expected to inform and the provision of cargo of business people at the port for many years, he said the state of theft of cargo has reached a high level of causing loss of government revenue to a large extent. In his conversation with the writer of this news, the executive director gave an example of containers that is claimed to be lost in the hands of TICTS. In that loss, it is alleged that the only one was found in one military camp in the country being empty and another was found in Ubungo, Dar es Salaam city, having already been opened. He claimed that for a period of two years ago, there is a loss of approximately 40 containers of business people from the Democratic Republic of Congo. The shootings are off "on the hands" of the TICTS. The author of this newspaper when he made efforts to search for speakers from TICTS so as to talk about accusations that are directed at that company, those efforts did not bear fruit, as it was for the efforts that took place so as to get leaders of the port authorities to talk about those complaints by business people. However, those efforts are ongoing. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_53882849 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Meet with this incredible event, how can you come to the umbrella!!, the queues do not have an hour!! Saturday, May 09, 2015 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. There is a queue of queues in big cities in the world, this issue that is even in Dar there is also an issue of parking.. it is possible you have created or are living in your normal house but you have a challenge to park your car!! "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Technology is not far from us every day, the creativity that will not stop at the other times,.. the German Engineers Team have done their craft, they have come up with this small vehicle meaning. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This vehicle is electric, it has the ability to travel to 70 kilometer for its battery being Full charge completely!! The other one is that it has the ability and reduction in its size as centimeter 80 recently, his tyre also comes to any other side that now that it is not like another vehicle.. as part of a parking lot is not enough, then this is intracted and enough. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Some have been impressed by this creativity, Mercedes Benz Company have confirmed their love, within the next 4 years they will have a car that will have a structure like this. General Motors has also said until 2020. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_34162522 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Ban to schools and uniforms chanted "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Ikunda Erick, Kibiti "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 30 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has banned students to wear a draw that chanted and went to school without wearing shoes and urged parents to ensure that their children eat so that they get them. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He has instructed the district commissioner of Kibiti to start a crackdown on students' students to be taken to school so that their parents can be taken against them. He made the instructions the day before yesterday in Kibiti when speaking to the citizens at a public rally when he was in his tour in Pwani province. Minister Majaliwa said the fifth term government has canceled fees in primary and secondary schools as a step of uplifting the level of education and urged parents and guardians to fulfill their duties by ensuring that the children are studying and not to get married. "DC from now started a crackdown on all children who don't go to school so that their parents are arrested and taken appropriate measures. The government has given money so that our children should not stop and it is illegal to make the girl child, the parent is involved, we will arrest and get married and you were married to you are in prison, we have no humor on that, "he said. Speaking about the needs of those children in school, Majaliwa said that right now the parent has reduced the burden of paying for fees and many donations which the government has given and urged parents to use those funds to ensure those children are bought, shoes, and given food so that they can get well. "Those funds at the time I am using to pay fees and contributions will now be able to buy a draw and food for your children, it is banning the child to go to school while getting in a draw that chanted," he said. He said parents must ensure their children are reading. He warned parents who have a habit of marrying their children by encouraging their studies to stop immediately because from now, it is found in the studies of a student especially female students, to prepare to go to jail for 30 years. In another step, the prime minister said three servants of the Forest Department that he stopped work to pave way for investigations they will continue to be out of work. Also, he returned to work to the Forest Officer of the National Forest Agency (TFS) in Rufiji district for being a new servant and he will not be involved in the haphazard harvesting of forests. However, he urged traders with licenses of harvesting logging from the council's office to inspect the validity of their licenses while waiting for a new procedure of harvesting forest crops. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_25528228 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. MOI has handed over 600 feet "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Katuma Masamba "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 15 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Muhimbili Orthopedic Institute (MOI) of Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), has been awarded 600 fake legs worth 60 million shillings with the aim of helping people with the need for those fake organs. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Those fake organs donated by the Legs 4 Africa Institute of England in collaboration with Mohamed Punjani and Children first was given yesterday MOI. The Head of Public Communication Unit of MOI, Jumaa diamonds, has said that the institution had the need for those organs because there are people who need to be trapped, therefore it will help to reduce that problem. "We are grateful and congratulating this institution for this donation of joints, they will help children and adults who have lost their organs for different reasons," said diamonds. According to diamonds, patients who need to be trapped therefore, they will contribute a little money for the purpose of being amended because it has been made so that the person should be made so that the mid-fielder is mistaken. The director of the Institute of Children First, Janeth Kiwia has said they will continue to help the institution to help children with special needs to be able to get those organs. Kiwia has said that the legs is expected to be used in the laboratory to create fake organs of MOI to make other legs that will help the customers that will have a need. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_48798479 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Confusion over "Mpemba" of elephants' teeth and 6 colleagues "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Francophone Emmanuel "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 16 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The case of engaging in the business of elephants' teeth involving six people including businessman Yusuf Yusuf (34) famous "Mpemba," has continued to bring confusion in court after the prosecution failed to explain what measures will follow after the investigation of the case is completed. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The case that came to the purpose of being mentioned, the Attorney General, Elizabeth Mkunde claimed that before the senior resident magistrate Thomas Simba that the investigation of that case has been completed and that the file is in the Head of Investigation in the special region of Dar es Salaam for the purpose of being taken to the Director of Public Service in the country (DPP). As a result of that argument, the lawyers of the defendants claimed that the case ended on November 16th this year, the prosecution claimed that the investigation has been completed and that the file is pending to be taken to DPP. However, Judge Simba said that the file every time when it comes to court that is confusion, therefore he urged the prosecution to ensure that in the other date, the case is coming, they should have good answers that after the investigation ses are the steps they will follow. "It is true that this court does not have the authority to listen to that case, but the prosecution is required to explain why until now if the investigation has been completed, there is no explanation that action will be followed," said Judge Simba. The judge postponed that case until December 29 this year, that case will come for the purpose of being mentioned. Previously, that case was taken to the first time the state of the Republic claimed that it is expected to take the defendants in the Supreme Court of Corruption and Economic Crimes, popularly known as the "corrupt Court" for the purpose of starting to be heard. The defendants apart from Yusuf are Charles Mrutu (37) a resident of Mlimba, Morogoro, Benedict Liwenga (40), a resident of Mbagala Chamazi, Tuesday Chima (30), a resident of Mbezi, Ahmed Nyagongo (33), the driver and Pius Kulagwa (46) are facing four charges of involvement in the business of elephants' teeth worth 785.6 million. It is alleged in a different date between January, 2014 and October this year in Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Iringa and Mtwara, they were involved in poaching, collecting and selling of governments that are 50 pieces of elephants' teeth valued at 1.8 million shillings without having a permit for wildlife Director. In the second charge is claimed that, October 26, this year, at Mbagala Zakhem stadium, were found with 10 pieces of elephant teeth, 13.85 kilograms of worth of $30,000 (65.4 million). In other charges, it is alleged on October 27 this year, while Tabata Kisappreciating were found with four pieces of the weight of 11.1 kilograms of dollars (32.7 million shillings). In addition, October 29, this year they were found with 36 pieces of shillings 294.6 million without having a permit for the wildlife Director. Judge Simba said that the defendants are not supposed to answer their charges because the court does not have the ability to listen to that case, thus it was postponed until December first this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_99290183 As it is understood the country of Burundi is currently in a political crisis, the crisis has also affected the lives of a child. Yes, this modern crisis that has lasted for more than one year or left some child Origin In the coast during the protests last year, there are children who were killed in other protests were injured although I don't have statistics here. And the children that seemed to have been killed by others Others were injured as the ones that lacked parents and find themselves as orphans who feels your life in find the mother lacked the left who was killed in easily and so Having a huge load of children and as well. Ehr Rights such as children because until now I see this week alone there are more than ten children who are in prison on suspicion that he has never been Honorable President of the republic of Burundi. You don't use my pen and kill and destroy his picture which is in the books of students Ehit is more than ten students who are now expected this month due to that act that ruling leaders are saying it is a crime because the president should be respected. Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; there are more than three hundred and thirty people who were expelled from the school in the southern city of Bujumbura. Or all are reading the critics that they say They are trying his picture which is inside the books of students is something that is seen for now because of the political crisis and the act of students taking photos and displaced on his vote in the book For The task was witness. This month of June where we are celebrating the holiday One of the African child to that and the child with this child will be his residence on the road of thanks to the tape, but as well. I thank you very bad because there are street children who are reporting on the road and are continuing to rise. The defending human rights advocate for the community because they are people who lost their hopes are not sympathy. It is someone who is a great threat as they said people who defend the rights of children here in the country In addition, Allah will go back to you for a long time now then and sell a microphone to you amen. He understands the millions of children and social institutions have come up as they acted with other nations. What is important that insisted in protecting the rights of African Child in Kenya And the issue that has been emphasized and taken seriously, have talked about it. And Riots and political conflict He denied it here in Kenya have begun to comment on his eyes As a result of the opposition they made their protests had a shufle in the past weeks where children and organizations or social organizations have threatened to denounce the situation and insisted that it must be issues of talks because there are already children who have been left with orphans after their parents AHH calling them to be in the same protest and there are also one of the issues that they have been able to consider especially according to one another. And the theme of African Child's Day Or in Twitter lt; hes tgt; in the world where all can be marked on another issue that they have been able to talk about there is a problem or the main challenge that still hit the society in which way they will be able to reduce. The number of children Gender services including you are because of the area to enter the country alone in the first quarter of this year. Thirty-eight of them were reported where children were able to be filed and say according to the children's director says it is not that So I am so proud of these children are distinct people but we will get some parents, relatives and relatives and not only female children why I will be filed but There is also a situation of women who will prevail The male children, therefore those are two of these two things that have been given to relocate the heads and think and have called it together that it is a must for all stakeholders to cooperate. Dealing with issues that are threatening the child's safety and see a child if he has no freedom of going around. The listener and his predecessor has been able to reach some of the problems facing the African child from those three countries which have their representatives here in detail but what are the problems of African child in the Sahara desert. My colleague, the ship has done an analysis and prepared for the following report Today is the day
query1053 foolish
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84042380 Without the error will not be the experts of TANESCO arrived at the area which has many customers and provide education for better electricity use. Ehr, we have seen it better if we get the same in the area. If I'm ready for a presentation: Lt; unk, gt; our customers who are in one place because if you look at all those close to twenty meters. I have faith that twenty kilometers already there are almost twenty million customers. So we find myself so that we can give you a better way to be able to use electricity services but take a precaution while maybe he has come out of the classroom or in his personal activities Ehyou for commanders, the biggest things in the country may be in power, if they get electricity, there will be a pass. Like these laptop If there will be a train even if it is the kind of style below you can register the board To give us a lot of money, maybe you have come up until the midnight is tired, we just want only. As we increase efforts. In order to build the ability to remember more when you have finished your activities of studying or in class or in your activities Okay adulthood In terms of that, when you have come from together in the classroom for a long time, you will be used to be so much like pads Electric things can be working for a long time later, so does you know if Mlenda Phone at seven o'clock when I was called by my colleagues, the rest here is saying something in your room, you come from the smoke we know, we should be united in addition, I know who you are here will be a catalyst to our colleagues who are not aware of the success that TANESCO got here. The house to the house to look at what the system is very lucky, this is a new building where it does not have its very basic weaknesses so that the users want to remember when he should ensure that the device has prepared himself in a situation that is more friendly that he is using it. But if it is that cooking then I will be asked by the wells we are going to get a job.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_96012192 Yes, you will worry today without doubt, you will wonder what we are pleased to say what we are pleased to explain to those who woke up and changed today in a studio that takes care we will be talking about natural resources after retiring. In respect and wish it is happy to welcome him at the studio My friend of I don't know the retired commander of Mister with expectations So close to Ahsante news, it is not just the news of your life after retiring again, it is just good that you are happy to be together with us and very close to you. And why is it first to be very happy and happy to welcome him in the studio because since then it has been a little problem to meet you and finally God has helped us we will see you maybe before we have started a period I would like to give an opportunity to our viewers who have been following our programs you can't know. Who is my full name is who comes from where you are doing very close to the superman Really like it... A retired police officer of the secret police force assistant commissioner is not very consistent with the police That's not when they send it to the outskirts we were heading to you Very close to it? You've got it all over and without doubt because of my profession I got to stalls at my work area which was not easy to stop there, we can do another different job but as they asked me for two and ten years I was given a two-year contract and then I am at home But as he said my names I am called a struggle. Mwakalinga Ehhe is a person from Mbeya. He joined the police force in one thousand and seventy-four November. As an expert after finishing my technical education at the old university that was called the Technical College, these days it's called think that Salaam Institute of Technology It's not because I've been small if I iton you know We are seventy-four times when we begin to serve our nation of police, I was a young child at the same time he entered the class seven is class one. Now the truth seems to be a youth
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_32497549 Above the resolutions, don't say I will not work again In health risks to improve life The chairperson told my grandfather, the aim has noted that in the city of Dar es Salaam in the public meeting that took place at Mbagala Zakiem grounds in the city, the chairman has insisted that it is the one that will do everything possible to strengthen hospital services to women as a manifesto of the party's election which directed the roads, I learned the subject of the party then well. There is no need to be careful Like going to laboratory Ours and their party, the revolutionary party through its various communities, I was making public meetings with the aim of explaining the implementation of the manifesto of the party from the Dar es Salaam. In fighting
query1057 improve transportation
query3977 hub focal point commerce buying and selling
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_42374285 There are parents who have children with them seem like. The parents like those bani Abbas because even though there are people who die in dowry for the child that he is doing until maybe Tausi without your face. That is those how this work is looking at Things doesn't know that you can't sleep Spiritual spiritual if hawaja Eating without the dark is that he is serving because Eating your children, others have children or the second ones they live and they eat they don't know what you know of their lives. Even with the names we know to believe that it was a child and the number of teachers must know that he was heard as a period of one person in every time, I should check the others how you are leaving Short even others even if you get two home until they are worried even paying. The verdict is given because now there is a need to know where the child goes on so as to get three time they had gone to school Well, you find you find you. It will help mine it is because we are looking for more difficult life and therefore, but they don't get to get including you and then we will change you later, we will continue there. Threaten people as usual, I would like to inform them and those who entered from Madega says as a parent to a child, you must read the parent first to lee in a hard cap For the fear of God and the child to release a father in peace, there is someone travelling with a bridge door in Saudi time and the wall of the room to store a child later. My best thing in the body is that Joyce He was able to meet with the people who don't understand that they were wrong for the abuse of money they can because I am my side That we can end the conflict of the child of my children when? I didn't worry two children because going to ten and five so they should use now that he is going to school one of the two areas. Three of the many cases of a child from the first time he needs to call the men and they take him to ask for seventy percent of children's accidents. But they are teaching that school which will be the one to do at the Saba Saba, there is one of the one that he has and looking at the buses. But I got the buses They have said that Bana were attacking mid-fielder but we see a lot of children still getting the father's parents if they take it too. They don't have time to accept the situation of life I think that's why Magamba is because we have a diploma of a normal government, maybe this is who is regarded, maybe his languages will stay in the Kimara or without changing the school, and planting cars for what we can take. That the business school is still in the school to make a child to some of the artists and the children of the school maybe because the teachings of both religions, people feel that we can teach a child in good ethics is the mother of the child being planned. Creator of things from there is no loneliness the child is. Shortage In the scheme The child is the difference between the child growing because we see that we talk about some of the small children again like a ten-year-old child or twenty years will have changed foreign issues in confidence that after being unable to you in the community as a result. We give them maybe, I can be lucky to know you, you will be living in a shadow, he can have since. If a woman can create mixed feelings like many. They eat duck
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_64238298 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 20 December 2012 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Doctor's daughter. Salmin presenting his brother 'jambitions' "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The second child of the retired president of the government of Zanzibar, Doctor. Salmin Amour, has emerged and denied that Mister. Kassim Ramadhan Juma (27), who was reported by some media houses being arrested for robbery is not their brother to the family. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, that child Mister. Amin Salmin, claimed his disappointment with the boy to use the name of his father when he does not tire to their family. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said the mother of that boy is known as Miss. Salma Kasu, when he was married to her father in the year 1990, already the child Mister. Juma was born at the age of 22. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "When my father married his mother, this young man had 22 years, it means the father was found, how can I get a child of Amour again in his bad things that are not wrong in the community, while it is the Comedian of our elderly and gave him pressure," said Mister. Salmin. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He added that he is aware of the three brothers, he mentioned by the names of Abal, Hamoud and Salama, whose father has been killed by the mother of that boy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "This is a robber who doesn't really believe in our family, I pray for that boy and his colleagues not to continue using my father's name for their evil and Comedian," he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_52190048 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 12 to beat Uganda soccer. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Grace Mkojera "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 30 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The coach of sea soccer team, John Mwansansu, has announced a squad of 12 players that will enter the camp to prepare for a friendly match against Uganda that will be played on December 9th this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Football Manager of Shore, Deo Lucas announced that squad yesterday on behalf of Mwansansu, who was not there because of the emergency. He named the players as Ally Rabby, Rajab Ginsufficient, Khalifa Mgaya, Teacher Akida, Mohamed Rajabu, Juma Ibrahim, Kashiru Salum, Talib Ally, Ahmad Ally, Kassim Kilango, Mohamed Rajab and Samwel John. "That squad will go to the camp on December first this year to prepare for that friendly game as part of testing themselves," he said. He said the goalkeeper Juma Kaseja was among them but he was married because of the problems, but later there is a possibility of an increase in others for the purpose of increasing strength. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_58491525 The report of the cases of spreading nude pictures, human rights, threats, reopened by Eto'o "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This may not be a good year for Cameroon's international striker, Samuel Eto'o, after his national team did badly in the World Cup competition, and he has no team of the club to play after finishing his contract with Chelsea, now he has opened a heavy trial in court. The cases of humiliation by spreading nude pictures, threats, purchase / sale of humans, fraud, and threats have been opened in a court in Yaounde, Cameroon, and the former Chelsea striker, Hlyne Nathalie Koah. Earlier last week Koah opened the case against Eto'o who denied the charges. That step has come a few days after the spread of her naked photos on Facebook, which the former flight attendant has said that they have been distributed by Eto'o who was his lover. Eto'o has denied being involved in the dirty game, and in response to the beating of the leading player by winning many awards for his performance in Africa, has opened a case of misuse of money ($410,755) that gave Ms Koah for the purpose of opening an institution to help the community when they were lovers. This woman has been able to get them in beef, Fally Ipupa and Eto'o in confusing his love. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_50761271 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Police in court is alleged to be jailed "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our writer, Bunda "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 07 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Three people including prison officers have appeared before the Bunda District Court in Mara province, accused of five counts of conspiracy and abduction a citizen who was sentenced to three years in prison. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Those who were brought to the court is together with that soldier B. 779, Sergeant Ludovic (43) of Bunda District prison, chief executive officer of Histani Village, Mwananchi Malole (54) and Grace Ngenda (30) who is also a resident of Histani Village here in the district. While reading their charges in front of the Resident Magistrate of the Court, Gadiel Mariki, the prosecutor, Masoud Mohamed said on August 9, this year, in Bunda town area, the accused number one in collaboration with his colleagues made those mistakes. He claimed that they were enough to prisoner Rashid Chongora, who had been convicted by the court to go to jail for three years or pay a fine of 900,000 shillings after being found guilty of the offense of being found by the government. Mohamed told the court that the police took 600,000 shillings and made fake documents and a court of court so as to achieve that, where the prisoner who was in prison has already serving the sentence he was released from the fake documents showing that he has already paid the concerned fine. After the hearing, all the suspects denied their charges and the accused number one who is Prisons was given bail, while others were taken to prison after failing to fulfill the bail conditions. The case will resume on September 15th this year in court. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_59235986 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Nairobi, Kenya for these days have become like animals. They are doing brutal acts that in a human mind, you can't provide it. One man in Kenya, Stephen Ngila Thenge (24), has confessed to go to toe of all the two hands his wife who they have been together for a period of seven years. Thankfully he used a glamorous knife and was heavily dragged to toe in the hands of his wife for failing to bear her children. Despite the fact that we are saying that reproductive health is the birth of the Almighty God, this man was unable to tolerate the examinations that he was given by God for lack of a child, and therefore, finding him in trouble with his wife occasionally accusing them why you are selling children during the whole seven years they lived together. The wife, Jackline Mwende, from the village of Kathama, Mason county, his hands went on July 24th, this year. Apart from being cut to toe, he got injuries to the head. When you end up there, the man also gave a Little wife on his neck during the purple of fighting. When you tell you how the incident happened, Mwende says; "for the reason I have accused me that I have no ability to bear a child, my husband decided to leave home and go to live with me for a period of approximately three months. "Just after the return of the day before yesterday, he opened the door told me that the day was the last for me, he started shooting him with the machetes that came up with it." Mwende says he tried to scream asking for help to the neighbors can also help, but it was impossible. He says that after the defeat, the neighbors came out but everyone was afraid of suing for fear he may have died because he had a bad condition while many blood went down. "I don't know why he was blaming that I have no ability to give birth when last year, we went to hospital to test and my husband was discovered to have problems. "The doctor said that my husband is the one who had a problem... he didn't have the ability of giving me pregnant, however, he insisted that the problem can be treated and horses," he says. Mwende notes that after the answers, her husband, who is a clothes technician in the town of Mason, refused to monitor the treatment while he accused him that he is the one with problems. "He was not supposed to be treated... but despite the doctor's response, he still continued to catch up and hit me every day. "But this time the journey has to completely be injured in different parts of my body. "He has hurt me in different parts of the body, I have hurt the head, face and even in secret places," says Mwende. Mwende says that together with all the things that happened to God, who believes that he will pay him again in time. "I love my husband sincerely but this is his payment, therefore, God is the one who will be sentenced," he says. Speaking about that story, his brothers say that the couple had problems many days and that Mwende wanted to let her husband but one religious leader advised him to tolerate her husband and that there is a day God will break the grace and the conflicts will end. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_69530432 Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has said it does not recognize leadership changes within the coastal union of Tanga that is claimed to be done by its final party members that took place recently, UEFA reports that was sent by his spokesperson Boniface Wambura has been in the Coastal Union conflict that was chosen by this club's election meeting that is the one that will continue to work. National official statistics. The tournament to go but hafai has been launched in Rwanda where Kampala's team is not all of us have been sent to Mister victory of one goal by zero against what we are from Burundi. The one The one in front still continue Looking at the metal rather than some things Important without Uganda's team And the second game was between Rwanda which played a new match. That's what it comes to reply Dmittent Three whereby the first game at eight o'clock in the afternoon To play with the people of the continent between them. Another person is between the police and Mister world The total of twenty beauties are expected to climb the stage in the contest for the model of ten tribes and four in the competition that will take place on Friday at the Escape One hall, then the competitions Innocent Melleck Shirima and the representative of the company that is preparing the beauty competition of Lino agencies the finest speaking about the competition that will give the beauties who will participate in the competition have said. I believe this year after doing well in the year the previous year, it took the year So Kinondoni we will expect a history that is there for years to go back to the most important thing is that it has been given out in large numbers in the competition. Tusker project children Who is prepared for a long time in making sure that he gives various entertainment through uniting that in Swahili, the beauties is prepared not to fight which will leave history in the eyes and ears of Tanzanians, there is good when we get washing different talents where you also know that they pay their patriotism for them as Tanzanians and in that competition has a child and has announced. To maintain discipline in these two days, but another thing we accept the result? The judges Judges of this competition is the miss Tanzania, only three days, he will go to a t-shirt to play two and fourteen days. The beauties who will participate in the race have won by that and they had this to say Ehhe will help my parents to help pregnant women himself and children to help with the skills of using drugs or email My young people who are ten and eight women don't understand if you are not interested in the competition like this, you know the people of faith is gone because or personally so as to help a woman in order to get it. Staff reasons for singing and singing It is our home And brothers I read It's a calendar even the crops in the world For pregnancy and AIDS We started with this disaster This And Twitter issues The games from the oral center of the park showed that he has sacrificed to build a modern playground for Chunya District which will be the game of that state, he has given time with the construction plan of six plots that is expected to be built in the disease which is estimated to be more than twenty million shillings until the year the tenth of the six that all six will be ready for the position he reports more. As you are saying, the innovator of the construction of the modern stadium of Chunya district, deodatus Kinawiro that the stadium will be built by the citizens of Chunya district, has continued to be seen now the farmer has come out to build a football stadium in the ground, it is not that they are being targeted and they use people who want to show the issues of gender diseases in the game of Chunya village, deodatus Kinnon has continued to ask them to have the heart of volunteering to show the gender of the diseases in the game of Chunya village, deodatus Kinney has continued to ask them to have the heart of volunteering in this field, its cost is eight billion but you know and the citizens themselves there is no government money. We here are building volunteers for themselves, we see.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_20865494 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. ZFA removing players, coach, coach "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Mwajuma Juma, Zanzibar "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 01 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Zanzibar Football Association (ZFA) Urban District has banned two players of the football team and their teachers Rashid Omar Hamza 'Lato' for one year to engage in that game. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The players who have received that punishment is Issa Mwadini Haji and Yahya Khamis Ussi who all together are alleged to beat the referee, while coach Lato is alleged to enter the field and started chaos soon after the end of that game. Those penalties that goes hand in hand with paying a fine of 100,000 shillings until November 6, this year, was given by the executive committee of that party that took place at the end of last week after being satisfied with the evidence given by the referee together with the time commissioner of that game. The secretary of the Simai Khamis Ussi has been faced with that punishment for involving themselves with sports issues for a period of one year together with alleged to pay a fine of 100,000 shillings. Moreover, following that punishment, the team of the spots have been charged a fine of 100,000 shillings, which is required to be paid before their last game of November 7. The netball team is alleged to have violence after the end of the game between them and Mlandege team that ended with those teams from a draw of 1-1 goals. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_59151578 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Darajani business people to Saateni market "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Basil "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 21 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (SMZ) has set aside Saateni market that is in the area of Unguja Town for the purpose of being used by small traders where all the important infrastructure is complete. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That was said by the minister of state, the office of the president, regional administration and local government, Haji Omar Kheir when he was responding to a question by the representative of the Mwera region, Juma Nhunga who wanted to know why small traders are oppressed in doing their work in Darajani area. Responding to the question, Kheir said there is no abuse of any kind by the government to the business people until now, except the problem is there for some of the traders to fail to follow the procedures and regulations. He said that the government has built Saateni market for the purpose of small business people to do their work well and transferred Darajani and Mwanakwerekwe C. However, he said there are some business people who benefit the directive and continue to do those businesses in those areas where in the map of the city have been built to build modern business buildings. "The Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar insists that there is no type of violence that is being done to small business people in Zanzibar, we have allocated the Darajani and Mwanakwerekwe C area," he said. He said the Darajani area is currently in a map of increasing business including the construction of modern shops. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_38631538 A couple of days following one of the twelve apartment building to rise up in the middle of the city of Dar es Salaam, the National Housing Corporation, I did not give a clarification on claiming to be involved in the collapse of the building in the middle of the city of daslamu that caused the deaths of thirty people and four others to come and get the information. Speaking to journalists in that town, while the partnership building between Apex has a mix of Construction Limited has been built in indira gandhi Street. The executive director of that organization as part of our country He said the agreement between the two sides is a partner to cater for any construction and the Almighty God is responsible to give land that is the concerned stadium in that project. He has said that according to the contract, the partner is a responsibility to supervise all the work availability of permits and employing the concerned experts and that following that case, the army of haubi has made a special unit to speed up the inspection of all projects of the construction to identify the quality and challenges in the concerned projects and that for this, let's give them experts. To reach their investigation so that they will be taken to all those responsible for negligence and laziness Maybe It is the beginning to make sure that in front of this was real. In another step, Mister Mchechu said that following the instructions of the government of two thousand and ten years the organization wants the organization to revise the partnership policy so as to bring productivity to the concerned parties and the nation in general, that organization is to cancel sixty contracts and others that was surrounded by them where ten and eight have gone to court, it's all that you are remaining. But no to say Even his decision will come there. In order to write us in secret Which are needed Catherine projects to tell me one thing Only projects It was the same. When they entered into the streets a partnership contract, the people were selling the dollar but a long time From safe water, Fredy Mwanjala of channel ten But is the laboratory
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_30901161 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Mbeya City to open the registration "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Grace Mkojera "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 27 November 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Mbeya City team has said it will put it publicly on the registration of those players who will say at the end of this month. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The spokesperson of that team, Dismas Ten told this newspaper that they have already started preparations towards the second round when the leadership continues with the process of improving the squad due to the recommendations of their coach. He said there are some who will be left but to know who they are, will put it open on November 30th this year, saying that it is still early because the registration is going on. "The planning of registration continues, we go through different reports to see where we will leave you, and which we will continue to be with him, registration will happen before the closure of the window on December 15, this year," he said. Some of the players of Mbeya City including Joseph Mahundi, Raphael Alpha and Kenny Ally have been associated with the Azam and Yanga clubs, but there is no even one until now he has signed. But Azam FC was noted to continue with talks with Mahundi for the purpose of increasing the strength in their squad. Mbeya City who is taught by coach Mmalawi Kinnah Phiri is expected to enter the camp soon, to prepare for the league tournaments. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_67919873 In the place of gay a new project to pay twenty million to it. I talk about what the date is not a lot of money Okay, the meat of the animal is the snow the phone Ehhe has said that they are getting it from the soo three. However, I just have to get, he says that they do not work but I have never been involved in Nairobi. Now till I am surprised even the materials he will stop I don't know it is the job. The problem is that the shoes and mmm ehhe Nairobi is not voting for it. You maybe even shoes do not know that he cannot carry the shoes without. And it will not be a coup but I just want to tell me but if there is nothing I don't think it doesn't need to meet meat.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_23072758 Vodacom shares Final Dec 08, 2016 by Mnaku Mbani in News "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Initial shares of the Vodacom mobile phone company which may start being sold at the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) market earlier in the year, will be the "examination" for Tanzania. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That warning has been made by the investment advisers that they believe that maybe the people should not be buying all because of lack of enough fear. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The company that is leading in large numbers of customers among the mobile companies in the country, has announced that it will sell its shares of 25 percent, worth 500 billion shillings. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Business advisers who spoke to Good Citizen at the end of last week have noted that the amount of expected revenue collected is very high, compared to the financial ability of many local investors. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the period of January and February, the status quo in the stock market is not good, because many investors including private individuals and companies usually face responsibilities with major financial expenditure including payment of fees, claims of taxes and share of its shareholders. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Local investors in the shares are Private, Social Security funds, Insurance companies, business banks and individuals. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It has been noted that the amount of money that was planned to be found because of the sales of those shares will be big than other previous shares that have already been sold in the market since it was started in the year 1998. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. One of the business adviser on the stock market who did not want his name, we have said that together with coming out to eliminate great thirst for investors, the ability of that market is still small, especially local investors. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. DSE is currently 25 companies listed where local companies are 18 and those listed from foreign markets including Nairobi and London are seven. The Acacia, EABL and TBL are the ones that are leading in big stocks in that market. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. For many years, the stock market investors have been complaining that they lack the opportunity to invest their money from the absence of enough products (company). "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "We saw that the sale of Vodacom shares has checked the thirst of investors but I see the level is very high compared to the ability of investors. The issue here is how Tanzanians will talk about those shares and switching them all, "said the expert. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, since the capital market has already been opened to investors from outside and inside, there is a big possibility that investors from outside are the benefit of this opportunity. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "You can have a great desire for food, but it can happen when you enter the food and you are unable to get," said the expert. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He said that collecting 500 billion shillings from the sale of Vodacom Tanzania Limited Company Limited will be difficult for local investors, especially in the period of January. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. It is expected that Vodacom shares will start to be sold in the market from the month of January to March next year and its main goals were to get them from Tanzania from the official ownership system of the economy. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The sale of initial shares of Vodacom Tanzania Limited PLC is one of the implementation of the Post and Communication Act of the year 2010 which has ordered all mobile phone companies to sell their shares to the public by the end of this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Another agent of the stock market who also did not want to be named, has noted that the Dar es Salaam Stock Market is still facing a lot of challenges of lack of products, but the arrival of Vodacom is an exam. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "I don't think about 500 billion shillings is the cost of our stock market. But let's see until the end, "he said in talks with Good Citizen. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Caucus believes that only a few of them will have a chance to buy those shares and a large number of shares may be taken by investors from outside the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "I know investors from outside have loved Vodacom shares and where they are listed most of them will sell and money go out of the country. Without having the help of investors from outside the country, this edition of the previous shares of Vodacom will be a big test for Tanzanians, because that is the only opportunity to enable them economically, "he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The company has already announced the draft document of expectations (Prospectus) and the application in the Tanzania Marketing Authority (CMSA), which is the authority that is managing capital markets in the country. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84967868 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TRA has arrested five vehicles of TFF due to the arrears of 1.118 billion. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has turned up again to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) but this time it has not banned the accounts of TFF instead it has left five vehicles that are owned by that federation due to claiming a huge amount of tax. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TRA has decided to take those vehicles, if it wants TFF to pay the debt of the arrears of different taxes they owe so as to return their vehicles. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Richard Kayombo, is the officer of TRA has confirmed to handle those vehicles that are owned by TFF but he has clarified the reasons that caused them to do so. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "It is true we have arrested five vehicles of TFF and those vehicles have been arrested as part of the continuation of getting revenue resulting from the tax debt which TFF has not paid. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "So far we demand 1.118 billion shillings which is a mixture from 2010 to 2015. It should be remembered that behind you arrested their account because the debt was 1.6 billion and we have not been able to reduce the place of debt but it has not yet been completed and that is the reason to capture those five vehicles. " "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. This is the second time for TFF to be voted by TRA that was estimated to accumulate tax debts, the first time TRA scored all the TFF accounts but this time they have decided to hold their vehicles. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to Kayombo, those vehicles are in the yard of Yono including the bus that is used to fly the national team "Taifa Stars." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_22556637 Restrictions on road safety will be addressed Now "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Basil "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 27 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The report that between January and August this year have occurred 6,971 accidents and lost the lives of 2,217 people and others being left injured and they said they should be taken seriously. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. We agree with the statement of the deputy minister of internal affairs of the country, Hamad Yussuf Masauni when he woke up when he launched the road safety week yesterday in Geita province that it is good for road safety to be a national agenda. We are saying any good action that will help our nation to come out in this case that allows the safety and life of our people to be supported by one statement and every one who is happy our nation. Masauni, in his speech instructed the Tanzania Roads Agency (TANROADS) to remove the penalties on the main road that has said they have been seen as part of the sources of road accidents. The ability to remove the roads of the road, we have and if we see that it brings us more dangerous instead of the initial aim of reducing the speed of buses and other vehicles that are on the road especially in dangerous areas and ferry security forces, then we should lose to pave way for the risk that faces. Also, the call that was given by the deputy minister of requesting all the road users to follow the law and road regulations with the keenness that you have, you have to be considered by each one of us. Those regulations include to stop using high speed, crossing the ferry of pedestrians and cyclists and children crossing the road while under control. But the report that was given in that event yesterday by the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, who is also the deputy chairperson of the National Council for Road Safety, Edwin Ngonyani, that human offenses contribute to 80 percent of accidents and following up to speed that also contributes to 12 percent of the accidents, it should be done. What is the human mistake that we cannot work on deliberately with the aim of controlling in order to save our people's lives? Why are the reasons for the humanitarian mistakes we should be required, including being taken to the media to find what they have to do with the relevant crime? We still believe that the phrase of evacuation is that 'the union is strong and separation is a weakness' still benefit in dealing with the disaster, in solidarity with those who cause humanitarian crimes and continue to lose the lives of our people and make their own lives. The passengers involved, the police of road safety and the government in general, we tried to act, we will be able to win the tragedy of the accident and the ability we have. We should not accept to release a few people who are intentionally without caring about the law and regulations to continue being finished. We should not accept the manifesto. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_94387714 Police, Chenda shine at the Zanzibar Premier League "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Mwajuma Juma, Zanzibar "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 13 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The teams of the Police, Chaka Stars and Black Sailor have won its premier league matches that were played in different stadiums. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Police played at the Amaan Stadium to play with Malindi, where it won 1-0 goals. Goal of the winners being scored by Mohammed Othman Mmanga in the seventh minute. Another match that was played at the stadium was between Black Sailor that scored on the side 1-0. The goal of the winners scored by Mustafa Vuai in the 55 minute. At Fuoni Stadium, Chaka Stars team won 1-0 against the scorer being Bakar Thani in the 33 minute. The results have strengthened the stand with 7 points equivalent to Black Sailor which is the second in a difference of goals. Mundu has six points in the fourth position in the stand, police is followed with five points, JKU is in the sixth position with four points. That league will continue tomorrow by being played three games where Taifa Jang'ombe will battle against KVZ, Kipanga will play with the training and at Fuoni Health Stadium, which will fight with Kilimani City. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_19985000 We finished this topic that I think it's the first time when they say that soon the long distance buses have two drivers will help reduce accidents considering that this year there was no need for the things that happened to know where we start with a year which was not understandable and those accidents were receiving lines in the southern highlands. For a period of two months, people changed one of their lives and three hundred people were injured now, all the news had caused water up to other months, what I told me what I know as passengers where you get in the kitchen and I use this buses, the problem is that other drivers told me what I'm lucky to say that I see it because if I say that there is a day we are tired of people's clothes to have no value, the problem has been suspended because if I am lucky when I'm lucky that the colleague will have to partner if not he will get but the intense driving that they live yesterday were given but he does not get but the big driving that they live yesterday were given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday were given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday were given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday were given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday were given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but he does not get but the great driving that they live yesterday was given but The permit is going to you can't know if this is born is a piece as usual, I would like to cooperate with stakeholders. Ramadhani when he took power a little year about the allegations The message of the road safety situation goes well to the drivers Following the law and a large extent have been near, we are ensuring that they are made by two drivers and we have started the procedure of sharing drivers a long journey, for example, in the way they had been donated to Mwanza, a big Singida that is ensuring that drivers are changing each other by the way of Dar es Salaam to go. Mbeya Iringa It is ensuring that the procedure will help to reduce road accidents, the benefit is big because when they are two drivers first, fatigue from the journey you are not there and the passengers will be a mystery reason to go to the game. For sure, we should do the end of the biggest journey than that together tomorrow a long distance has come from its effects, so it really is a great benefit. And He is advised that the drivers make sure that they are supposed to make a confrontation to consider the law, but also the passengers can help them to report when they see that the driver was running a distance more than the government. So, Ramadhani hopes that we will get a little light on the claims against him that saw him after looking for Ramadan has given you a view. My father, I am talking And two drivers of meaning the long walk from Mwanza province From Dar es Salaam because there There is a cold drinks when you can be placed on Twitter because I have a lot of good infrastructure after we sing so much and he does not know what if you look at the effects they are told they have driving here at a speed of a high speed, sometimes it is sing to understand directly that the accident occurred. Will you stop us? Tires are effects and holes Remember I love you I was there. Simba... The team but now this party have been paid to Bahati, they say that the big problem is the buses that don't give an appropriate time to the same phrase until so the drivers are seeing them stop reading. The reason to surrender and the values of many people and every Mpenda Peace I was walking Next time. Earlier I left the buildings to be able to leave the squad.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_46744616 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. 35 college graduates call irrigation farming "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by John Nditi, head. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 09 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The graduates of more than 35 universities have come together with the citizens of Malinyi district, Morogoro province to run irrigation farming of various crops including onions and rice. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Those statistics have been issued by the head of Malinyi district, Majura Kasika speaking to journalists the day before yesterday. He said his district intends to bring a green revolution by getting a goalkeeper for irrigation farming and to fully implement the strategy of Big Results Now (BRN). He said that those graduates have come together with the citizens of the village of Itete, and Itete, Charambe, in Mtimbira village in that district for rice, onions and mosques of irrigation farming in Alabama Valley that was built by the central government at a cost of six billion shillings. According to Kasika, the district has a total of 127,761.06 hectares for agriculture among those 27,884.04 hectares be suitable for irrigation farming and 99,877 hectares .02 hectares have opportunities for agriculture by depending on the rains that are 55,429 hectares are used in agriculture. He said by recognizing the great opportunity that will be caused by that scheme, youths and university graduates were united and started groups and to use that big irrigation project of Itete in producing vegetables, tomatoes, onions, mosques and rice so as to uplift their economy and in that district. Kasika said the production of irrigation farming of Itete with a size of 8,000 hectares as the whole area will be continued to benefit many youths from outside and inside the district including groups of other ages to produce three times a year for crops especially rice, onions, mosques and tomatoes. Some of the graduates of the universities that came out in irrigation farming, Jasper Muganyizi, Upendo Nkone, and Iddi Beca, at different times said that they have decided to run modern farming for irrigation farming, rice, and mosques to increase their income. "The current agriculture is scientific, therefore education we got in different sectors is one of the ways of using farming, because irrigation farming is correct and it doesn't cause losses," said Muganyizi. Mwakatobe urged university graduates to come from farming because the current agriculture is different from the past and also to encourage the scholars to focus on the agricultural sector for their economic benefits. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query2031 property land bank
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_32135241 The Abuja city in Nigeria are facing a huge shortage of fuel. Despite the country that six countries in the world leading in oil production There have been buses and buses for people waiting to buy that product in the petrol stations He knew that it has caused money money for vehicles. Where young people buy fuel from petrol stations and shot down the people who were waiting for the service at the queues Some people are forced to stay in queues for twenty-four hours There has also been corruption in the distribution of this important product in Nigeria How many fuel violence in the country have also been increasing whereby for two hundred and fifty thousand days to be stolen in the country. Nigeria is producing two million pounds of fuel every day
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_15129325 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The port games continue to blossom in Tanga. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Anna Makange, Tanga "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 18 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The port soccer team of Dar es Salama has round 3-0 to their colleagues at the headquarters in the tournament that is continuing to kick off at the Tanga Secondary School grounds in the city. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. That game that took place yesterday was a big opposition and the teams failed to break without scoring a situation that caused the second half to start at a high speed. The port of Dar es Salaam started by taking a series of tweets at the headquarters of the headquarters and wrote the first goal in the 47 minute through Sigifridi Kikogo who used the laziness of the defenders of the headquarters to score that goal. That goal was raised in his bed, the headquarters of the headquarters and started planning afresh so as to provide health to attacks at the goal of the port of Dar es Salaam without success. The port of Dar es Salaam did not be complacuated with heavy attacks at the goal of their opponents and wrote a second goal through Nor Ngongota who had a shot shot that defeated the goalkeeper of the headquarters and filled the net. Ngonota wrote again a third goal for his team after beating up the defender of their opponents and beating the ball inside the goal of opponents in a basketball game in Tanga port continued to give a blow to the teams participating in the games this year after defeating them without sympathy for the port of Mtwara by 88-26 baskets. Moreover, the Dar es Salaam Port team emerged with a victory of 50 baskets -47 against the headquarters where up to half of the game, the port was behind 27-19. On the side of the netball game, Tanga Port have continued to give a dose to the teams participating in the tournament after beating Mtwara by 43-16 goals and in another game, the port of Dar es Salaam scored 36 goals - 13. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In the games of hashtag that was played yesterday morning and in the evening, the teams of Mtwara and women were selling their colleagues from the Lake Region by 2-0 goals, whereby in the soccer game of Mtwara was forced to a 1-1 draw with the Lake Region. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_35615709 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Busungu still first "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. January 6, 2017 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Yanga's coach, George Lwandamina has no plan to use his striker Malimi Busungu for now until he completed his personal issues. That was a result of that player facing the ongoing case in Morogoro that was caused by the accident of the car that he got on November 20, last year while on his way from Morogoro to Dar es Salaam, confirming the presence of those reports, Yanga's manager, Hafmeet Saleh, said that it is true that the player will not be used in a big step of the Revolutionary Cup. He said that the striker will have to wait for him to continue with the team when it comes back to Unguja and continue their efforts to defend the championship of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League. 'We Don't know what we decided to leave because of the case that allows him and we've seen it better we're relaxed to make it better in other competitions that are ongoing here in the country. 'But I also request that we should understand that this tournament is not long ends by our player, his case has not been completed, therefore the teachers saw it good enough to continue with his case without having trouble with any kind, 'said Saleh. Despite the player the absence of Yanga squad still have done well in their previous two games by harvesting six points and eight goals while the coming matches expected to meet Azam which is out to dismiss all his coaches recently. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Share "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_84484084 Technology Many of the people are faced with problems even in the area, we see a small example of the players's contracts becomes apparent because it's been written in English, now a person is so angry to be promised to be made up on the table then he fell right without knowing that there are sections of the contract from the government to open up a lot of players now the stakeholders are abo that this presence of a strategy of being able to be the youth. So they can develop kelly To the right time they are coming now, Wilson Elisha was stripped away in the areas and met with some of the players limit Haji week to know that Tanzania is Tanzania. Academy, as well as players as well as a panel, coach Arsenal Completely this Some of the players of the sports center of the case Academy of Ilemela in Mwanza Province have said that the program of bringing coaches to the center well then the challenges facing them at the time of being taught. However, those players have said that despite the challenges that they face when he sees sure that the training is given more benefits to the center in the province, in general, the most important language we talk to the weak will not come to them so that many people who are because of alcohol. Please will be apologetic Market why to show something he calls for leaders Who have the soccer party in the world The leader of the convoy from the Arsenal team of England, Josephat has admitted the existence of challenges, Ruge Communication to the youth during the teaching of the youth
query1617 bottle container
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_92827438 And where are you? Today I am at work, that I have not talked to him for a long time but I thought he will get into Town tomorrow, I thought if possible it would be very safe when I felt the price on the rain, it was just two hundred for a lot of money. And Freddy: Where is it? He comes to Town tomorrow and we are eating a tradition today, not I was heard, it was a very small price I wanted me to tell us that I have now told me when it was introduced and you are coming up with how many hours Mmm then that person survived. I will come to twelve hours at the evening or at one hour the AHH will end up with the hours I will end my work as long or something at ten o'clock this time I let me know because this time I work with a little mm AHH is not that I told me I'm at work for how many hours you will make you. AHH and the money will be done When I go to work at this time it is from you, you know what I know and what I don't know I got out and what I don't know I got out and it cannot be the money now it will come out this time and how many hours and a half AHH should I do because I am not set up. No. Science AHH but it is also not a must we should give lunch at 7 o'clock in the ai, not what we know about the closing of the child, please stop it And now he tells me lunch I will close to learn that you know me in lunch Since we must have lunch between other people Ohh, the other people in mi I am a food to now mi know my hours and my stomach is the same you know No, we should know it is seven o'clock. AHH your hours is also not a must for everyone's hours On the end of eight hours, I will closed down a green shirt to look at the day before yesterday that is there. AHH also ten hours you can eat lunch you can find themselves on you. We are afraid, they would be angry in Town where we were here in Town, I know I don't know cooking everything I have done on the family where I want to go to coast or what I don't know. Ehhe ehorehhe was going through your grandmother to hear your grandmother you will immediately get abusive to improve her and where you love her, who's your wife, no you see if the writer of the fuel can't happen to the love you get to it. I am a love mym john AHH the day I paid love to remain at the way he will be teaching anything to me and didn't give me anything to them. It's not good that it should be that it is not that every hour is what he does not know is enough for the house Ehr again, you may still return to their return, he didn't get away from the fare it was to why and it must be done. Ehr you must have already paid me what was it? Ehr you must be able to find a mym above your parents, reading our we can make sure where he has done. He did not know that the child of the country to enter the country, I got to the farms where he wants sugarcane, it is just the only one to believe it's not another one that has been set on trees and what is that to enter the leaves, let alone three months at the Mnazi Mmoja. Tell you what? Ehr but not you know the first we can mi leaves leaves, it can also be high prices not even when we know it's not going to bring us a crush leaves us because we know what Noble's neighbors can crush as a mym. Ati When I was, I believe it is the same while on how you wear you or it is our months, I got the Mnazi Mmoja and that something that is provided inside, it was that us is not Mnazi Mmoja Nancy there is Mnazi Mmoja the effects are not the Mnazi Mmoja. And us is ivory is alcohol that has gone to Mnazi alcohol. What is one electricity, maybe Madnow isn't you know, you don't know the mi I have since the continent is not you know while you know what you are doing now It is water AHH false. Ehr
query1598 elephant
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_16926728 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The executive director of Vodacom who resigned from Aula Qatar.... Media also includes his resignation and scandal of the loss of 700 Tanzanian shillings "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The former managing director of Vodacom who resigned recently, Rene Meza has got a point in another communication company in Qatar, known as OUT Mynmar to be the executive chairman of the Myanmar branch. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Furthermore, the report that was given to the press yesterday by the company has said that Rene Meza will take the position of Ross Cormack who is expected to release that position this year. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. According to the South African network has compared that the executive director of Vodacom has resigned so as to do another job. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, various social networks in Tanzania has involved his departure from the scandal of the loss of approximately 700 billion Tanzanian shillings which is equivalent to 350 million American dollars. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The reports reported that Mister Meza was on "hot" by the top officials of the company in relation to a scandal of receiving 5 million dollars from the courtesy of Shivacom, Tanil Somaiya who bought him to bear the mouth from the production scandal, distribution and selling of counterfeit drugs that were known by the name "Jero jero." "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Rene Meza joined the Vodacom communications company in the year 2011 from Bcertificate Airtel Limited company in Kenya. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Below is a report released by OUT Mynmar company in Qatar. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_42654290 Non-productive will not make Z'bar generous Nov 11, 2015 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Next week I will continue with this week's article about this election to be a lesson. Today I saw to say a little about the challenges in the Zanzibar elections. Let me start by saying that the 2015 elections have given a big lesson as a nation, we have learned more like the people and citizens, and that we have not been put in a big attempt, it can be lost, usterity of our colleagues may have gone down and there are some of our colleagues, not all, their decisions are more emotional and not the logic. Our leaders have also developed themselves well and most of us know their real colors. Sure in one way or another we have been confronted here by everyone because the citizen has a contribution to us here. Our dollar and its agencies also have a contribution in bringing us here, our political parties have also a great contribution to us here, here we are not a good place, we don't want to be proud of the level of people to be in public, not to respect, not loving, not trust, a large extent of selfishness and hatred and everyone to avoid responsibility from citizens to citizens. Let us start accountable if one person, we ask ourselves and think about where everyone is wrong and we don't have a simple response that our minds will start to give us like, it is a government, it is a political party, it's rich, it is a certain tribe, it is a certain region, it is certain religion or sect. When you get there, if it is a parent I will tell you that when the last time you explained to your children the beauty of their country in Tanzania? When did they tell you how Tanzania is a unique country in Africa and the world? And if you are a citizen to come out and start giving a finger to others I will ask when when the last time you participated in your local government sessions and you will participate to identify the opportunities and obstacles for development "Opportunities and obstacles for Development (O & OD)" in your region? Or has it been opposed by your activities is waiting for the trend of arguments during the 2020 campaign? The start of the government, it starts to be a keen citizen now. Zanzibar has failed, wisdom will rise to Zanzibar elections which was held one day by the elections of the United Republic on October 25. According to the Constitution of the United Republic and the Constitution of Zanzibar, these two elections are different and do not have any relationship. Speaking about the authority in this elections are being managed by two different authorities, returning to the constitution of the Republic, article 4 that talks about "authorities of the country" in the meaning of the United Republic under the National Electoral Commission (NEC) that involves the elections of the president of the Republic, members of parliament of the Republic of the Republic and the Mwadians of the Tanzania mainland. The Zanzibar authorities under the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) has a bond of coordinating the elections of the president of Zanzibar, members of the House of Representatives and councilors. In the two different elections, both parties are supposed to put its managers all over the country to manage election activities that are constitutional and legally they have the authority. The translation of this explanation is that even Zanzibar National Electoral Commission (NEC) presented officials in every station to supervise and run the elections of the president of the United Republic and the republic. Alongside NEC, ZEC put its officers to supervise and run the elections of the president of Zanzibar, representatives and councilors in all stations in Zanzibar. Even the stations is one area but it is two different authorities. While the results of the election results going on under the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) received several issues which in one way or the other led to the chairman of the Electoral Commission of Zanzibar to delete the presidential elections, representatives and councilors. The chairperson of ZEC, brother Jecha has given more than eight reasons, I will explain a few reasons, first, when the exercise is continuing with delegates inside the commission failed to "know each other" in a lighter language while Tanzania Mainland, the delegates of ZEC were left with a fight. The chairman is going further to say the delegates of ZEC were killed by homosexuals and started running the fields, if it is not enough the delegates of ZEC will go back to their allegiance and to start flying the flag of their political parties. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
query982 living with diabetes
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_82770869 It is going. Interesting, sir, apart from what we call for you for you to be able. Ukawa to encourage your fellow youth and many people That there is a great benefit of owning the networks and use the networks that it is not only a must to do other things that are not wrong in the community but if you are keen. You can get income as soon as they struggle to find employment to the youth we only have a good time to be able to run business now than it was ten years ago The remittances of that We do not lie to a very common man aw, it is Kota when you take away away the whites to the stadium. From the press follows a truck you don't need a strike called Ben and that will lead dirty mountain to how can you make your relationship with those of the products every day they go back. How can you make a relationship to an extent that when the visitors would benefit me, I want to be called. Now social media can do it something The right of that number of fifty tourists here I have left that every day there should not be the whites that globalization Jimmy in their country has revealed that every man has come with the hype that he calls now how it starts to bring those mothers. That we have come up with just five word of talk Living in his way, Constable has left your colleagues in America AHH has been your work and the work you are doing. There he was speaking in disaster As his star, those friends claiming to come up They want to see him If you want to see you in time. As an artist, sir. Succeeding Because we can't let us use the internet to be taken? Tell me your eyes to take it now, how will you be announced to be announced to be given to small things that we are doing every day to benefit themselves We were with Mike thanks very much, I think of course the youth are following closely so we start with a big paper, Innocent Mungi, very close to you, the donation I will talk about it very well and there is nothing we say now is to help the industry we are recording and airing the aircraft. There is a communication channel and there is a link to communication services you can get television on radio. Amen in a phone you can get radio on what technology has signed The people who were studio in the radio can be following are following the announcements and people sent a message that you do not get the attention on twitter, people have communication starts when someone is in the studio, but people are Kibiti in his period using the message now it reaches a place where we started to see even in the radio programs here in the moment, people are sending messages with messages. Which is very difficult early in the difficulty of that ehr to an ordinary person cannot solve and you find someone reading here says not mi It is Mike, you find you going to listen to Mister. Now this situation was contributed by the small professionalism of communication services the communication authority has the ability of example In order to prevent such a centre like that you do to feel like or be blocked, but we look at our development still in technology, I will not accept you now below. We know the whites are saying that we have brought up, there are people who are not used to live with us but come from. Not having anything until using phones will go to the internet so there is a sense of people wanting to use those services without even looking at its use, I think the reader will agree with me on Twitter orleans bed they have the terms of joining them and explains that there are a hall I think I say ten and seven years there are ten and four years. According to our colleague in care of their communities, that is someone you tell you that you will be taught how to comment on the public to comment on the internet now, while there is someone who has never been taught about how to comment on the public on the internet now, while there is someone who has never been taught to come to the internet, what is the moment that you are getting into the phone begins, the phone starts to broadcast when you feel that there is no one that you need to know but also it is the first situation that these social media wants now that we the first campaign focused on making two major things. To enable people to know that In-law or social media It's like that in the past we were sitting at the buinge, they call it 'I don't know if they were at the binge on the bottom of the Zionist trees when there are the elderly until today they are drinking it, it's just depending on that they are saying that they are going to go up for us now there was a place where Israel live there is nothing else to get and there are other football things that are talking about different things. They are different from which we are called Physical Social media. Now people came out than had to insult the public as it is in the Grade. They don't know that you are insulting now on social media that it has been connected to computers and all phones in the world that have internet. Why do we know that we don't know that first but second there is something called SELF Regulation and responsibility. Personally and look at what is good to do, of Course we wanted people to understand that everything you have and I on Facebook there are friends I have arrived. I see I cannot add to others that I say something or five thousand you feel. One other than it. Those of all his friends will see that they have gone home like comment, Kiswaga so that it is making the spread of a large group and people are now aware of the effects that we could have been there. A certain group of people who have Abuse are making use of communication to social media
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_38194462 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Leaders in areas that use smuggling should be held responsible "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Anna Makange, Tanga "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 09 September 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Provincial Commissioner of Tanga, Martin Shigella has ordered to be responsible for government officials and village executives in areas that will be given the tremendous amount of importation of products in the country through smuggling. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. He gave that directive while speaking to some of the employees of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) when he visited the offices of Tanga province yesterday. He said the first responsibility to government officials and executives in the villages from the lower level, is to supervise the defense and security thus it is their responsibility to put strategies to fight and stop the acts of crime. Previously when giving a report on the performance of the head of the province, the manager of TRA in Tanga province, Swallet Byron said in the period of the year 2015 / 16, the authority has succeeded to collect more than 110 billion shillings equivalent to 86 percent of the aim of collecting $128.7.7 percent. "In addition to those achievements we have problems of smuggling products where in the financial year of 2015 / 16, the province seized products worth 2,331,752,626 shillings and earned 351,693,036 shillings, being tax and punishment," he said. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_50726446 Different sports stakeholders including sports parties NOMA volunteer to help sports equipment for children with disabilities in ensuring they are participating in sports as required information, our athlete Elia concerned has an explanation It will be delayed by the chairperson of the association of female artists of terrorism, Matilda bashtag during the commemoration of the world residential day that took place at the primary school of children with disabilities of Sinza special in the city of Dar es Salaam, has said to participate fully in the games for their children being unable to make their minds and promote their thinking skills by posting important issues. Like it Citizens are following these people, we have seen that they love sports. I am surprised if it is empowered can I request those who are able to bring the balls Do you have sports clothes like netball Football, we request all the children we see because after these three youths Losing have participated, we thought we were in that. We have come here Sinza special, the main aim is to climb the trees of ridiculous things For the sake of these colleagues who need the disability of those organs to help them so as to improve the environment Now, we request other stakeholders who have been moved to how they will help these seven children. To celebrate that day it is a slogan of only anywhere in our planet because of the environmental destruction Which is associated with memories of remembering the founder of the party in the sea I reported from the had had been received in the air.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_62452896 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. At the beginning of last month the documents of Panama that killed the whole world met the scandal that will differentiate between them and scandals that involve one country. A bunch of 11.5 million documents are reports of more than two hundred thousand foreign companies that are in the list of Mossack Fonseca that share owners, shares and heads of those companies. It is normal in the business system to run a company outside the country he is from the owner but it is unacceptable to be normal about Panama's documents, it is the wealth of various leaders in the world have been buried and it should be noted because of course. Previously they were mentioned a few senior officials and their relatives, but later it comes out that the Virgins islands are owned by the British and Hong Kong islands where they are flying from the ground. Owning a company outside the nation is not a violation of the law but those companies have been used with crime including tax evasion and corruption. The cover of the crime was opened by a reporter who named "fake" John Joe "who exposed the issue publicly, in the German newspaper of Scandinavia ddeutsche Zeitung earlier last year about the dirty game that began in 1970. Later the documents were distributed to 400 journalists through a union of investigator duniami (ICIJ), in 107 media houses in 76 countries. As it was in the ancient aftermath of Esopo, where they were blocked in mazon (Pandora's Box), which was controlled by the first concrete woman in the world (Pandora), which was controlled by soil and soil, but then broken down the world's evacuation, Egypt, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Cyprus, Egypt, France, Hong Kong, Iceland, India, Indonesia, and Israel. The other is Italy, Malta, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Ukraine, Arab Emirates, Britain and the United States. The ownership of the company outside those countries and the protection of their reports and small tax charges, has been used badly for the benefit of the bloggers of those countries. Mossack Fonseca that has three hundred thousand companies is being used for playing those documents so as to stop its customers, to prevent the identity of owners and mysterious accounts of the use and benefits so as to prevent them so affecting the economy in the world. The gap between the rich and the poor has increased by the tax evasion that is needed while the biggest victims of the developed countries, that lacked income that are estimated to reach 213 billion US dollars in the month of July only last year. Mossack Fonseca claimed that it was tortured by the internet but after the documents started to get involved with them, the professional order reveals that it was playing for the internet for documents that are not known to hide the truth. The person that leaked that secret said he decided to do so, so that the world knows the truth although until those accusations have been handed over to be completed then it is known to his reditation. The names mentioned include the UAE President Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, King Salman of Saudi Arabia and the Prime Minister of Iceland Sigmundur Gunnlaugher. There are also former leaders including Sudan's president Ahmed Al-Mirghani, Quatar leader Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani. Also the former prime ministers of (Georgia): Bidina Weishvili, (Iraq): Ayaq Allawi, (Jordan): Ali Abu al-Ragheb, (Quatar): Jaber Al Thani, (Ukraine): Paylo Lazarivo and (Mumbai): Ion Sturza. Other famous names are the father of British Prime Minister David Cameron, the President of China's Prime Minister Najib Razak, three children of Pakistan's Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, Clive Khulubuse Zuma, former British Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi and film actors Jack Chan and Amitabh Bachchan. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_99616951 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. TOC gathering today "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by our correspondent "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 10 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) today expects to hold its general elections in the city where the guest of honor is expected to be the provincial commissioner of Dodoma, Jordan Rugimbana. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The secretary general of TOC, Filbert Bayi said yesterday in this town that Rugimbana, will be opening the election meeting of TOC leaders who will be in power for four years to come. He said that all the preparations for that election are going on well and already the delegates of that meeting, who are leaders of parties and various sports associations have already arrived in the city ready for that general meeting. The positions that will be vied for today include the president, Vice President, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, assistant treasurer and delegates of 10 executive committee. According to the secretary of the TOC Elections Committee, Harrison Chaulo, candidates for the positions of delegation from Tanzania Mainland include Muharam Mchume, Irene Mwasanga, Noorean Shariff, Juliana Yassoda and Noel Kiunsi. The time that is contesting for the message from Zanzibar is Suleiman Ame Khamis, Mussa Abdulrabi Fadhi, Nassar Juma Mohammed, Ramadhan Zimbwe Omar, Said Ali Mansab, storMohammed Ali, AddCosmas Chasama and Shukuru Abass Nassor. Candidates who are entering the elections with no opposition is the president who is completing his term, Gulam Rashid, Henry Tandau who is vying for the vice president, Secretary General Bayi, Suleiman Jabir who is vying for the assistant secretary general, treasurer and his assistant, Charles Nyange and Juma Khamis Juma Zaidy. Chaulo said that there is no any candidate who was cut in interviews, Hassan Jpopularity, Lukelo Wililo and Abdul-Rahman Mohamed Hassan Saleh, who showed the intention to appeal, but he was unable to do so. The players of TOC players, which is formed by players from parties and federations for different games, the day before yesterday got their new leaders in the elections took place in Dodoma hotel and opened by the head of Dodoma Town District, Christina Mndeme. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_38074593 Welcome to our discussion, I don't understand with me, lucypatrick _ e with young people and topics that we will talk about today's day is that young people are using the opportunities that they are getting in their lives near why they are called Catherine tooli. Five, what is the best and I don't know what they are getting received well for a good example, all the students know one minute Boom we call a loan to get a loan, many students know that you will get a loan to get a loan so that you can be able to increase the size and later maybe it can be entrepreneur or even though it is something of the meaning but he did not give the head of this big scientist who gets going to use he is gone to do shopping drinking alcohol when he was shocked. This young man should use me, he will use well that is if the youth use my money was done but two things that you have never thought about the series of posting you have left afresh in the negative side, you know these days you try to blame the government that he doesn't enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to The environment for them to come out to be self-employed as the government has not called a good environment from the university to be self-employed is possible to be dependent or the government is going to produce a nation of people who are coming to be dependent on Tanzania and Tanzania. It wouldn't be a university we thought that from the university to self-employed while on the street, we must be able to get employment since registering a white number r cid as we get problems. It's going to say it's a fraud on social media As a young man or the day that is not good because men had to be monitored, I can discuss to get out, but we look at that side the citizens that the government is unable to organize his youth well so that I think I have said afresh and the structure of curriculum. It's not enough for us to be independent, take an example of a lesson you know also mi in a cultural style of fish Mi is a Tanzanian, there is no need to train you to tell you that is the team of Msimbazi River in irrigation farming through software So that the training is? Another one should tell us to say the farming of maize yesterday or even think about it at home Because Dodoma was surrounded by I find the desire to bring in the maize I will go to the street every kasoma to study the child he will listen to class four to three hours if sikosei is taught to provide electricity using battery and battery. To pick up the Rivers, I don't know he is making my grandfather to make the men feel like to make men And the youth who we have finished technical education in the evening you could come to be self-employed more to electricity and reduce the problem of sports, Tanzania will not be able to wear except increasing many readers in Tanzania. It is the first class teachers to do Fresh from School to someone. He was living with her father until I am not with her. He was a college of bogus that we had given. The integrity that we want to ring there is Mziray the Best wants to sell his recommendation, a whole person who is full of upbringing because you find the teachers and the student being used there. We see the Chinese to come to invest here for us and why are the use of why they should not be sent to them here and us see you want to make sure there are young people in Kariakoo to get Chinese. Completely selling flowers _ selling FIFA will do one job that the economy and it is removing that number of economy of Tanzania has been in a certain extent but you see you still have a very difficult life and I think if a young man who is a young man who is the main job of the nation had been prioritized in the issue of agriculture like agriculture is the head of the back. Tanzanians We link to the plantations until this hour since we got here, there are many areas until this time we have not reached the forest but the government has decided to give money and invest in the benefits of agriculture and take the youth like that. . That's a good thing because a young man in the air and discover you can work then I think a person who does work I don't think if he can be convinced there is no good goal that I am convinced there is no good goal that I am supposed to have a family in which way or it is required. I mean, I wouldn't use fourth when he used to form a form that he will be doing stupid in class six to consider the studies because I don't have an animal to make many youths fail to use the opportunity. One of the misconceptions that they had been given dire to tell God that maybe he should be a leader. A small village but now he knows that the young man who was vying for him in the leadership level may be ogwa or those people who maybe were fighting with the following day. Mi think the main reason that yesterday the washing machine is also a bad system or in the commission. You find you as a young man for later you want to be engineer But a parent should have explained to him and he is thinking for later to have everything he needs. Go back in kasome maybe? You will be read we didn't financiers in expectations that the teachers can't help him As a result of why this poverty is at home because he can be depending on something in these times, a Tanzanian is going to read as engineer. He believes that if you want to go to study teaching you will help the family but also to be self-employed Let's ask you a nation later in their lives but there is no such thing for our many families. This young man is unable to reach what he calls young people who are required to use your thoughts in which they Put the best from who? For example, a young man may be able to get education for his studies and national ideas in general But the parent or the sun He has no capacity in developing I was there. The resources are not. Hundred told me But mi is a young man who is afraid to tell his wife he was crops and that one cow can take the shape since the benefit of my life I told me that the father has not told me that they are wrong with the theft and the issue that several coming down to tell me that a cow's house is a luxury tomorrow we will do? Now we need to stop so I know that I have been taken to read it up to me. Mi think that Be peace So personally that a person is that to achieve goals We should not give up and we should know that everything is. It is a must that you be reached as if you pass the areas saving the private goals, we are the youth that we believe and we participated in the area where we will cause us to do a good things that I can call for now we have then we should use you. If they do not have the same, I want to read then toxic. Because there are other people who can follow up until you want to be who doesn't know that, that is the rest of us, if the youth must understand that what we need but find out from my heart, then let us use the position we have. To achieve goals but also for our families, parents should realize that we are things that will look for later in the opportunity to build good muscles to be able to reach. Social end, let's stop the concept of a young man who is looking for Brother in making it The World later post worked hard by asking the Course he puts on it. A young man is also an opportunity to read at that time when he came from, he sees clean things to check every day because he knows home. Thing Next? I am given Jackson the opportunity for the use of technology as youths we use it accordingly, there are better people, he uses social networks for the purpose. Very benefits that They do In studies, there are some who do a discussion of discussion in how many students are meeting, they have a confrontation of ideas, who are meeting where women are meeting, but now there are some people that you find that because of a large number of people and they have said that especially for these countries where you say not to use the cupboard, you find a lot of young people that show up on the things we sell for them. The reason I didn't know that this case has come soon to see that we don't know the effects of his hands, that is why you will find that someone from home has gone to work, he is eating that instead of using that time to serve as it is customers like maybe. It's satellite The branch is time when she uses you to get into the internet maybe I will be informed. As Facebook maybe Tira should maybe see them and you find that you find that. There are others also on the second side with them. Online at this time but it was a job hours and he was supposed to use time for overnight. Now you find that the customers have come in. When you need the services you can be able from skin, the concerned company is so busy while believing that we have found that the loss has come in approximately three because of the first.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_59141411 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. However, everyone is aware of the life present at this period, although some have decided to make it a symbol of praising others. You find someone that laments a very difficult situation, although he does not make efforts that are seen to deal with that situation. For those who know him for a long time they know that it is the procedure of begging. This is a nuisance, because it is a habit that reduces the love that was between the brothers or a long-term friend. This is a time for everyone to work with dedication so that things go and otherwise people will be among other non-basic reasons. Everyone is aware that the situation has emerged and it needs to help each other when it comes and not someone is using it as a capital of not doing anything to be asking for him from his brothers and relatives. Zaitun, Mabibo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_89198077 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. League Board warned coaches "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by Rahel Pallangyo "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 16 December 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. All the clubs that are participating in the league that is supervised by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) have been ordered to employ coaches who are qualified according to the regulations. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The report of the chief executive officer of the league board, Boniface Wambura to go to the chief executive of the premier league clubs, the first and second league is reminding them to employ talented coaches because it has been noted that some have employed or continue to employ coaches who are not qualified. The report says 72 regulations for all the league has identified the qualifications of coaches who deserve to lead the technical bench thus going against the regulations is to violate guidance in the professional area. According to those regulations, the coach of the team that is participating in the premier league is supposed to have a license to start a bridge B of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) and the assistant coach is supposed to have a license C of CAF. In the first level league and the second league, the reputation of coaches will be against because the head coach is supposed to have a license of C of CAF and the assistant is supposed to have a high level certificate of coaching. According to those regulations, coaches who have no qualifications will be removed to teach the concerned teams. The rules are working on the end of the first round of the Premier League where Toto Africans coach John Tegete was removed from the bench due to lack of qualifications. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_39841701 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Shabana has registered the star of Nigeria, Shabana FC has given three foreign players in strategies to feel before the next season of the Kenya Premier League. Derrero Muchinji, Habib Mohammed all from Express SC of Uganda and Ichi Chibalways from Nigeria are the latest players to join that club. Technical manager Gilbert Seleath has confirmed that the registration follows the number of players who killed Shabana to seven. "The Kenyan premier league has a big competition and many teams that are promoted in the bridge are lowered in the first attempt. We aim to evade that stream in the first round of the premier league, "he said. Shabana aims to finish among the eight best teams in the country, and that is the main reason to prepare for the continent before the match broke down in February 2015. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_36486766 And while the committee completed the process of getting the national income continuing to prepare so as to get that bus, different stakeholders in the country have said that leaders should have a good direction in leadership as a national symbol as it was the era of the father of the nation, the late teacher Julius Nyerere in the report parter kalenda That was noted by a discussion that comes every Monday in the national arts council of BASATA here in a bid that many leaders do not have patriotism and their country should please each was accepted by the poor people especially in the villages because they do not have faith in many leaders that they did the bus to be national. In that event of art and different artists, they got an opportunity to give their views to know the steps and strategies that was reached, the whole process of getting a national bikini where he had been discovered by the executive secretary of BASATA, it does not have a national father, when when did the father decided to themselves that their intention last week wondered by following the words. Or no to say that the leadership community, then faith is the pillars of their clothing, we will follow them not soil then the nation There were Kambona. What people say to be like bail and believe it is a public money for you. Good performance The story The teacher in the city he started the activities of socialism and one part. Without having pictures of the people to mend oral What did they face Because most of them were goals Until it should not be these buses. Some of the ministers honorable ministers, number two for all his wives as to welcome the proposal, why the partnership was to change when I reported sports and entertainment Saidi article ten
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_96977371 Ehr then later after seeing what we were given now, they are on the back of the back _ c _ s _ e others even wearing a Job now they stole A few hours met in large numbers, he has said that I don't know they did not steal and they were looking for them to steal mym. The first time they said that it's not the first time they were telling them saying they were carrying out the water they did not steal now at this time, even if they are back, they have told them to get the job when those who stole it now, however they went on to steal even they did not go to help Kenyans. Imagine and that's very bad. Until now, you see this government actually and what is the direction and e _ c _ P is going well or it continues. He continues well as AHH, unless you don't wait for thirty minutes mym. Ehr Mym and you see that if now this week the government is doing this things, things had to say when they told the citizens that they will fulfill they will decide when they want the leadership they will fulfill you see now because they have worked for real people at this time. So FAR, I Don't think there's a task they have done good for it. There is no work they have done well, so there is no longer if you look at this you see if there is any way that they have fled to the citizens, they had promised they will do nothing you can do even the two things you can see. It's not just for free medical treatment, not then there is a place to get married, not I saw that by t _ v, there's a place to pay for the garissa like there are others in the garissa yeah. Mym nwell They have forgotten. Mym Ehr
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_34277878 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Imprisonment of a soldier "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. April 3, 2014, a supporter of al-Qaeda who killed a British soldier in London has been sentenced to life in prison without a possibility of forgiveness. Pictures of the killer, Michael Adebalajo finished a knife that was full of blood after killing a soldier Lee Rigby and defeated the world as a result of anxiety in Britain due to terrorist acts. According to DW, Adebalajo who also declared himself as the Allah fighters was sentenced to the Supreme Court of Crimes in London and his partner in the killing Michael Adebowale was given a 45-year sentence. Judge Nigel Sweeney who proposed the verdict, said the brutal actions of the people are reduced and added that Michael Adebolajo's behavior cannot be amended again while Adebolajo claims that he did murder as a retaliation of Muslims in foreign nations. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_28538876 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After Tanzania lost 7 without Algerian.. Shaffih Dauda Ahide in TFF, claims they were doing efforts in Tanzania. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. FROM the Desk of Shaffih Dauda: One of the biggest problems of us Tanzanians is not to accept when someone has continued. Most of the time we do not ignore what he has, for example someone has a good idea to say that he is executed or kaiba. We do not accept the reality or the success of a person so as to give me a challenge at least if I do not reach or close to the next person's success. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Its meaning is that those are the efforts of the corrupt efforts that were done by TFF to prove to the Tanzanians that we can score against Algeria something that is false. That is why I from the beginning I have gone through over 100 percent about the issue of scoring against Algeria. That is why since the beginning I made a promise that if Algeria has been given by Tanzania then I will go to prison, I have loved to citizenship, that is why I have the assurance that the issue is possible. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. The ball has no Short cut is the plans that there is clear, TFF played with psychology of people after they failed their primary job to manage soccer investment. They surrounded Algeria, they created a committee that was a way to rescue and convince Tanzanians that it is possible easily beating Algeria. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. I will not vie for this results but on the other hand is happy. This should be a lesson to leaders who have mentality of a supporter instead of managing and creating a consistent foundation of developing our soccer, remain in developing propaganda of throwing Tanzanians. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_79299759 Three days of citizenship education in Chipogoro, Feb 18, 2015 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. After 13 hours of the journey I arrived in Chipogoro village, Mpwapwa district, Dodoma on around three o'clock at night. When I was in Dodoma town, I saw one of my fellow passengers on Chipimo. Chipimo's condition was contrary to the rhetoric of the passenger who had told me there are all basic services including houses for enough visitors. The bitter famine caused by my fear of eating in the journal, which I was told the sleeping house is just one side of the road! In my fingers, I went off the road towards I was abandoned. After asking several times, I arrived. Four toilet rooms participated in. The existing electricity is the sun light and you will light the lights. I have a dirty bed. Godoro is full of joy as a mosquito celebrated steadily in a bitter summer. The toilet was very dirty while water is a problem. Around five o'clock at night, artists of the group TACCI, who brought Chipimo to arrive at the visitors' house. The coming of them brought a big conflict because the rooms were not enough, while the water was completely broken. TACCI, Tanzania Community Civic Initiative is a citizen institution in Dar es Salaam that provides civilian education. The artists of TACCI told me that the problem that I met with Chipimo are not even half of the lips that they went through their convoy for a period not less than two months in the ward and the villages of Mpwapwa district providing citizenship education. But, all of these problems are earning interest in this amount of suicide? My three-day schedule to walk and witness the work of the artists of TACCI got answers. In the morning of my first day of work after a sharp needle of a mosquito to the other, two lawyers, Clementina William and Husband, who are part of the group started a schedule for running a seminar for county leaders about inheritance and good governance. The leaders were impressed by the subject of wosia. Especially, benefits, conditions and a place to preserve wosia. At the end of the seminar, leaders urged lawyers to visit their villages and give the citizens the education. "We could be able to go ourselves but we will not explain to fluency like this," the chairman of Chipimo village popularly known as Punda of Jesus, told lawyers. After the seminar, the leaders were displayed as a sophisticated training intended to be shown in three villages that had been appointed in that ward. On the day of that day, the work of providing education through the acting game started in Wiyenzele village. In line with the paramedics, there was also a mercy on the law to advise the citizens for free to fight for their rights. In the advice which began at nine o'clock I witnessed the queue of citizens with different problems waiting to meet with the lawyers. Clear, one of the lawyers said many citizens of Mpwapwa have been asking for advice on marriage conflicts, land and inheritance while the main victims are women and children. Several times, those advisers have been receiving feedback from the citizens who are grateful after succeeding or wanting more advice. At 12.30 pm, the art show started. Four redients were displayed with different content including good governance, child abuse and children. The first chorus was a dance and an indication that it started by showing the father bought for alcohol and people who are coming later to bribe him money so that he can show her daughter with good development in education who is in primary school. The mother of a Child is opposed to receiving a glimpse while the daughter comes in shock. The second video shows that we should stand for those who refused to go to the development of leaders, husbands, parents, and so on. Citizens did not participate in meetings to discuss development believing that they have chosen leaders who are supposed to bring development without any contribution to the citizen! The third chorus is about the exploitation of women and widows. After the passing of her husband, one of the perpetrators were expelled from the house they had created by her husband as they think everything. And her sister is accused of being beaten by her husband who is an addict, but he is depending on being treated without stopping money. This sister every time he was suing, - to the father, mother, aunt - was told to be a cry. The men dragged with a child with a child to be richer for alcohol. However, the chorus ends with two fees to deal with the entire lineage that brought me the widow and orphans. The fourth chorus shows the amount of forgetting from Tanzania. It is starting with pauce, where one man narrates about one good country, rich of milk, honey and minerals but has a lot of citizens. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_98787788 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. They blocked the fire of Moreto are arrested. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Written by John Gagrisk, Lugoba "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Published: 09 October 2016 "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. Bagamoyo District, Coast Province, has said that it will ensure all those who were involved in the burning of a high school in Moreto are arrested and taken to the law enforcement agencies. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. In addition, he said in dealing with the fire incidents, they will ensure all schools have enough protection so as to prevent those acts to continue. Speaking to journalists just after visiting that school, with the defense and security committee together with the member of parliament of Chalinze region, Ridhiwani Kikwete, the district commissioner, Majid Mwanga said they are continuing with investigations on the incident. Mwanga said that the incident is sad because the government has been doing efforts to ensure students sitting on a dormitory so that they can get a lot of time to study especially female. It is surprising to see that the dormitory of girls is reduced while there is no student or someone when the fire happens. The head teacher of that school, Justine Lyamuya said, all their equipment were reduced, including 75 beds and mattresses, all the items being worth 24 million shillings. Lyamuya said that the dormitory was built recently for 50 million shillings and in that event, five children went away after being left behind by smoke while trying to save things. Ridhiwani said, the government will ensure all those involved are arrested and also the event will be examined and know who was involved in those events to come out regularly. He said that he has already called a session on October 9, this year for education stakeholders, parents and those in order to discuss how to deal with that problem that happened on October 5th. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it. "But I'm not Going to do it.
MATERIAL_BASE-1A_94942342 Mym ehorehhe want experience I haven't done the Team well, I just want to then tell me I will return from Monday. Until now, they told me that I would have. They want a three year experience or two years now, but you see that I don't have that big so that we should then now know if there will be that. Mym right cool Whether we Don't know there is no good place in the meantime, you know you know there is a place maybe in line. If you can't leave your Job as it is in line, where he is inhalo mym ehhe is unable because now the good thing comes to even if it comes to you, where you will get a mm when you will begin confusion. Ehyou then tell me that you must be very worried to tell me that we are adults, you know I know that she is making a lot of children up to you. Until ehhe disc, while there is no money he is thinking of you, we don't think it's like at home you missed the allowance and the maize is therefore, he starts to be surprised at the same time, he had told me to go to the zittoke, it is still unable to go for the message and what he will be. No one can take a fortune in the next month and it's not like Nairobi if you don't have money in the next month and mym AHH and Next month in the middle I can ask as Long as yesterday you know even I'll come up with it. If you can't go home not as if you know where everything is the fund, now you see if they are coming? It's not for us to share what we were told that we should share the malog to take the money. Let us talk to us there are people while they are still teaching them with those things, I am with many people to prepare to see if we will teach them even not to take that money before it is not mentioned. Chris, I will come to the side it is not bad if you are a group of people who have sacrificed to pay you, you know the wrong thing I got to a group you know a person being used when I get all the strength and then other people will not get paying you that you are paying you, there are people you know well and no mi mym Ehr What is the way that you do. Ehr Whether it's the problem now, even the people I have been looking for those people you know even when a person lacks that money, I am going to take his home or where there is a good person to say tomorrow I got left. Ehit because happy is paid? If you will be paid and who want a person to know maybe the latter of the house he has built his house or the invitation to her parents, even parents will know if you get a boy to clear whether the girl is talking to you can even get that milk. Mym mym ohh I have never been surprised But now if you go to a person in the road you will give you tomorrow Until now, I was saying that we have to prepare well the certificate is close to that, we should know that things are going to take it not and not we are cool except for the life you will take a lot of words. Mym ehhe mym ehhe AHH is good I went to everywhere. Ehr Ehhe and not only will we talk to you that the party's issues have continued. AHH tells me
