Saturday, August 20, 2016
the narrow door: reflection for 21st Sunday in ordinary time year c - August 21, 2016 - jubilee year of mercy
in hell there's new word, and is asked to choose a door to punishment.
first door: opened by a caretaker and he saw the people, hanging upside down while being immersed in the sea of fire.
new word: "I do not like it there I do not like it there!"
second door: opened by a caretaker and he saw the people are tied while lashed with a red hot whip
new word: "I do not like it there I do not like it there!"
third door: the newcomer heard singing "do not form waves do not form waves do not form waves"
new word: "hmm I like it here looks happy they are even singing!"
third door caretaker: "are you sure of your decision?"
new word: "of course sure! I even know what they are singing do not form waves do not form waves"
third door caretaker: okay you said so
opened the door the new word fainted
the reason people are singing "do not form waves do not form waves" because the people are submerged in feces up to their neck! hehehe they said, the after-life is filled with surprises!
in actuality we have only two destinations in the after-life: heaven or hell.
the last door is easy to enter, effortless, happy, with singing even!
the first is hard to enter.
in actuality very few pass this way because it is narrow, hard and many sacrifices are needed to be done.
but the lord said, there is only one way to enter heaven the narrow door!
that is why if our search in being Christian is only "good time" and "easy-going" in our being Christian then we are mistaken we cannot be lukewarm in front of god.
damned if you do damned if you do not!
being Christian asks only for one thing to be like Christ
we pass by the narrow door everyday.
always open inviting but because it is narrow many of us do not want to pass
it is hard to forgive.
it is hard to be honest to family.
hard to understand.
hard to be giving
hard to act with dignity.
it is easier to disobey the command of god.
it is easier to steal.
it is easier to cheat.
it is easier to lie.
it is easier to cheat than be faithful to your spouse.
it is easier to commit a sin than do good.
the offer of the convenient door is more inviting
no hardship.
no suffering.
but we also know where the convenient door leads never ending danger!
let us be wise Christians.
this year of mercy let us strengthen our belief that there is a god of compassion who continuously shows us concern and understanding.
he knows our desire to enter the door of heaven and he is aware of our weakness in deciding to choose good and bad of right and wrong!
there is a reward waiting for us if we trust in the goodness of god that he will not neglect us in our effort because he loves us.
there is a "heaven" we can reach if we endeavor to follow his will, persevere and be humble as we follow his commandments.
remember there is only one way to Christ and where you end up depends on the door you will choose.
