Thursday, February 28, 2013
trust in order to be trusted
is it necessary to dream?
"dream anything you want to dream, go anywhere you want to go, maintain the happiness that you feel, and calmly play whoever you want to become."
because you have only one life and one chance to do all the things in all your goals in life.
many of us are only scared to follow their important dreams, because according to them they are not deserving, or they have no ability to achieve them.
whereas the possibility of having a dream come true, is the one that makes life amazing and beautiful."
why will it happen?
"because if you have a wish, and definitely need it to be able to achieve all your dreams ... the whole universe will cooperate and connect all the things to your path to help you achieve them."
what if our relationship is messy and full of arguments?
"no one of us will only waste his life full of conflict and bitterness.
others definitely do it, only to threaten and frighten as a form of control.
if the relationship ever continues, one of them lets go.
whether he wants it or not he cannot do anything.
it is in line with, 'it takes two to tango.'
there will be no argument between if the involved do not allow it.
if you do not have permission, no argument will prevail.
and it only continues, because you want and agree to it.
objecting and being carried away by the passion of emotions are just part of the drama.
all of us have the ability to fix any argument, if only we want to.
for others, fighting or arguing has become a joy or delight.
do you mean, they do not know they are hurting feelings?
"if your love is real, you will not be able to hurt the feelings of your beloved.
because you have responsibility to make your beloved happy.
your whole world will revolve only around him.
we have a duty to ourselves, to our feelings, and the result of our choices.
we have no one to rightfully blame for any emotion that prevails in ourselves.
because it is the truth and we do not need to apologize to anyone.
many do not know; that if you are the one who hurt especially those close to your heart, you are the very first one to be hurt."
what is the saying, "understand first, before deciding!"
"the simple answer here is don't assume, and discuss it personally."
think of the outcome of the decision you will make.
often the intention is good and right, only that the technique is wrong and contrary.
everything will be seen in its result, if it is correct or wrong.
and if you are angry, never ever say words, especially of threats, that eventually will hit you and harm you.
always put yourself in the shoes of others.
if it hurts you, you will be sure that it will also hurt for him.
and stop quickly making decisions without thinking first, to avoid impending misunderstanding.
as long as you are alongside fear, lack of peace, and suspicions you will remain always in contact with the grief they bring forth."
do you have to be always correct in everything you say?
"it is written.
everything started with words.
careless and violent speech leave behind conflict.
rude words destroy a life.
it destroys sanity and causes illnesses.
calm words at the right moment can be relief from boredom and reinforce your hope.
words that plea create trust and faith, but more healing ... and blessed most of all, are words of love."
what if you do not have experience or have not learned to say it?
"whatever argument or conflict going on, just smile.
true love starts at the sight of a smile, followed by caress and kiss, that ends when a tear drops.
not a tear of bitterness and mourning, instead that tear filled with joy.
remember, when you were born, you were crying and everyone around you was smiling and happy.
live with joy because in your passing, you are the one smiling and everyone around you will be the ones crying.
in the end, it is not important how many breaths you made, instead how many moments you lost your breath from the happiness that consumed you.
and you can only give it if there is love in your heart."
what if you are unlucky in love?
"misfortune has nothing to do with this, because if there is love in your heart, you will continue to love.
if it is not in you, there is nothing you can give.
this is the misfortune of many of us.
only those with self-love can love others.
in case life gives you many reasons to cry, show life that you have a thousand reasons to smile.
life goes on and it will not wait for you.
how is it done?
"simple actions only.
work as if you do not need money, love as if you have never been hurt, dance as long as you want as if no one can see you.
and live the life that you want.
I always know that if I look back at my tears, I will laugh, but I did not know that when I return to my laughter, I will be reduced to tears.
still, enjoy life, ... it happens only once.
hmm, what if it happens again?
if something took place, there will be effect.
everything happens only once, and will never happen again.
but each thing that happens twice, you can be sure will happen again on a third time.
and if charmed and possessed with insanity, it is already a ritual for them.
to my knowledge, love sometimes goes stale, is this true?
"you are referring to drowning.
do not listen to what others are saying and avoid even their provocations.
love never goes stale.
it will be recognized in the qualities of a person and in his actions.
even if you have experienced love once, twice, thrice, or a dozen times ...
you will always be faced with a new situation.
if you are honest, nothing will happen, but if you are weak, it will prevail.
love is not related and has no meaning here.
because love will bring us even to paradise and hell.
this can be answered well by suitors and those already married.
in the first, he will offer his whole world.
in the latter, if there is a good spouse, life improves and relationship peacefully grows.
but if the spouse is selfish, it is complicated, does not grow and becomes despicable.
just remember that the moment we start to fall in love, love will also start to drown us."
