a kapuso feels how much Kris loves him by Gorgy Rula
August 18, 2016
Kris Aquino's alleged signing with APT Entertainment the other day is being loudly talked about.
is it true that Brother Boy Abunda is disheartened about Kris because he was not even consulted when she signed in the APT?
Brother Boy is shocked when he learned that Kris did not even inform this to him.
as our source said, Brother Boy will not stop Kris.
but hopefully, it could have been told to him so they can smoothen the run of her career when she signs in the APT.
we are trying to call Brother Boy but he is not answering our calls.
as we have known the two, seems like we do not want to believe that they are disheartened for each other.
it is impossible for Kris not to inform Brother Boy about this big decision.
but as we know it, Brother Boy only put his hands on Kris' endorsement.
in terms of her career in show business, Deo Endrinal handles it, so the King of Talk must not have anything to do with it.
but because of the closeness of the two, Kris could have said it to Brother Boy.
we have not gotten any detail about the signing.
our source does not if the Queen of all Media signed a program or managerial contract.
there are some followers of Kris on her Instagram account who are asking if it is true that she has signed a managerial contract with APT.
there are some who are bashing because they are questioning her loyalty.
if this is true, Kris' timing is really good.
she appeared first in the grand opening of ComradeTunying's Cafe of the couple Anthony and Rossel Taberna and then signed in the APT.
she is being talked about continuously.
we have heard few reactions on this issue.
one Kapuso artist is very shocked who reacted about the impending transfer of Kris to GMA 7.
if she is going to have program in APT, of course, it will air on GMA 7.
so one Kapuso artist expressed a dialogue on how he was loved by Kris because she followed him on GMA 7.
if that is going to happen, this is fun!
let us just anticipate!
