Residents of Puerto Galera, beneficiary of KPSM Instant Service
September 28, 2016
CALAPAN, Oriental Mindoro, September 28 (PIA) - Public service was again carried out for the residents of Puerto Galera by the regular "Capitol" for the Residents (KPSM)-Instant Service.
Various community services like medical and dental and other important services of the government were given free to the residents of Puerto Galera.
in the medical services that was carried out by the Puerto Galera Hospital, 509 residents were given free consultation.
Through the mobile dental clinic, 450 had free check-ups and tooth extraction, 165 were fed in the free soup kitchen, 741 were given free medicine, 180 became clients of PhilHealth.
From the Education and Employment Services Division (EESD), 19 sets of sports materials were granted through the Provincial School Board while 13 barangay were given sports equipment by the Special Concerns Division (SCD).
The Provincial Tourism, Investment and Enterprise Development Office (PTIEDO) conducted a film viewing about the production of seafood snacks and also gave away Guide to Business brochure to 24 people.
there were also eight individuals who consulted with the Provincial Legal Office (PLO) about resolving various cases and legal matters.
there are 13 barangays given with plant seeds by the Provincial Agriculturist's Office while 600 forest seedlings were distributed by the Environment and Natural Resources Office.
Through the Provincial Veterinary Office (ProVet), 53 animals were vaccinated with anti-rabies, included here were the castrated pet cats and dogs. Here the doctors became the support of ProVet from the province in Marinduque.
Meanwhile, there are 65 people who participated in the symposium conducted in the place by the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) about the anti-drug campaign of the national government.
The KPSM Instant Service of the capitol is centered on the concept of fast and quick delivery of primary community services of various divisions of the Provincial Government and the agencies of the national government to the residents of all towns in the province.
(CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)
