ComradeArman Albarillo: revolutionary leader, brave fighter, communist hero!
Eduardo Labrador National Alliance of Farmers - Southern Tagalog July 6, 2012 the National Alliance of Farmers (PKM) salute the heroism of companion Arman Albarillo and all the revolutionary martyrs of the New People's Army in San Narciso, Quezon who offered their lives in protecting the welfare of the poor in the barrio.
the revolutionary movement of farmers recognize and honor the commander and fighter who bravely faced the enemies of the people.
ComradeArman was former overall secretary of the New Patriotic Alliance in the region.
year 2009 was when he decided to join the New People's Army.
because of the made-up case against him and 71 others, he chose to leave the streets and answer to the call of the barrio to continue his service.
he has long fought for justice for his parents who were killed by the Arroyo regime in 2002 including many more victims of violence of the state.
he repeatedly failed.
only in the People's Army did he see that his orphanhood will be given justice.
in a country where it is considered crime to be patriotic and serving the people is terrorism, it is an honor to die while fighting.
he also displayed unwavering resolve for the interest of many and readiness to sacrifice his life for the principle he believed.
his dedication in pushing for a national democratic call cannot be discounted.
he happily accepted the fight passed on to him by his parents.
he embraced the sacrifice and poverty that came with his responsibility to the nation.
up to the final moment, he did not turn his back on the farmer class.
like many fallen heroes of the working class, the life and fight of ComradeArman will serve as a guide to all the people.
ComradeArman will remain alive in the memory of the masses because their history does not stop here.
despite sustaining damages, the poor in the barrios are further forged into the life-and-death struggle for the democratic interest of majority of the nation.
no matter when, the farmers never gave up the armed revolution.
the farmer class will not turn his back on his responsibility to support the New People's Army.
the hut of the farmers in Bondoc Peninsula is always open to take in the army, help them and arm-in-arm defeat the loafers and bullies of the plantation owners.
the People's Army and people will protect wholeheartedly the success reaped by the agrarian revolution.
failure awaits the concentrated offensive of Oplan Bayanihan of the US-Aquino regime.
it won't be long, the eight battalion attack of the fascists will run out of steam while the People's Army and people obtain solid victory.
long live the memory of companion Arman!
people and People's Army, unite!
foil Oplan Bayanihan of the US-Aquino regime!
