remembering Ninoy
in his 33rd death anniversary by Bernard Taguinod
August 21, 2016
"I have returned on my free will to join the ranks of those struggling to restore our rights and freedoms through non-violence."
I seek no confrontation.
"I only pray and will strive for a genuine national reconciliation founded on justice" this is the first part of the prepared speech of former Senator Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino Junior.
in coming back to the Philippines after three years stay in Boston, America last August 1983, using the passport named to Marcial Bonifacio.
"I am prepared for the worst, and have decided against the advice of my mother, my spiritual adviser, many of my tested friends and a few of my most valued political mentors."
a death sentence awaits me.
"two more subversion charges, both calling for death penalties, have been filed since I left three years ago and are now pending with the courts," Ninoy was supposed to say.
but Ninoy wasn't able to deliver his speech because before he even went out of the airplane he traveled in, while stopped at a tarmac of former Manila International Airport (MIA), successive gunshots were heard, and two people fell flat, and he was one of them.
Ninoy wasn't even summoned at court because just as the plane landed, he was already sentenced with death by people who up until now are argued who gave the instructions to the soldiers to shoot him.
but before Ninoy died, he was regarded as a pillar of the opposition during the time of Marcos, although, born in a rich family in Tarlac, he made his own name when he became a war correspondent during the Korean war at age 17-years-old.
at the age of 22, Ninoy was elected as the Mayor of Concepcion, Tarlac; at the age of 27, he became the Vice-Governor of Tarlac, and became the Governor of Tarlac at age 31-years-old.
in 1967 at the age of 35 years old, Ninoy Aquino became a senator and critic of President Marcos and was believed to be a strong candidate for president in 1973 by the Liberal Party.
one of the privilege speeches of Ninoy is the "Jabidah!"
"special forces of evil?"
that he delivered on March 28, 1968, which was about the Armed Forces of the Philippines' (AFP) alleged massacre of Muslim recruits, who are being trained to take back Sabah that is under Malaysia.
Ninoy also hinted the cooked 'Oplan Saggitarius' of Marcos administration which aimed to put Philippines under Martial Rule, almost one year after bombing the political rally of LP at Plaza Miranda.
the Senator wasn't mistaken because last September 21, 1972, Marcos declared and demolished the 1935 Constitution, and arrested 400 people along with Ninoy because of their alleged plan to take over the government.
Ninoy was investigated, along with their communist leader, ComradeDante Buscayno, but he refused to recognize the military tribunal by saying "I would rather die on my feet with honor, than live on bended knees in shame," last 1973.
Ninoy rallied with hunger strike while at prison as protest, however, he wasn't paid attention by Marcos until he got sick and was rushed to Veteran Memorial (Medical Center) where he stayed at the said hospital for almost a month.
on March 1980 Ninoy had a heart attack so he was brought to the Philippine Heart Center and through United States (US) President Jimmy Carter, Marcos allowed the senator to seek treatment in America on May 8, 1980 and after recovering from his condition he had numerous speaking engagements in the United States about fighting for the Filipinos.
it was here that statements and quotes were remembered to be icons of Ninoy, such as: "a time comes in a man's life when he must prefer a meaningful death to a meaningless life."
"I will never be able to forgive myself if I will have to live with the knowledge that I could have done something and I did not do anything."
"we only ask that freedom be returned, we ask for nothing more but we will accept nothing less".
true to his words, Ninoy came back to help the Filipinos be freed from the chains of Marcos government, known to be a dictator, after a long time.
however, the exchange was his life, not before he landed his feet on the ground of the Philippines, he was already a corpse; because he was shot while coming out of the plane that flew him to his birth country after three years of exile in America.
