rich congressmen and the grandmother of all scams
who is this congressman who acts as agent of the two giant but foreign companies who wanted to corner the President's Bridge Program or PBP?
this is the congressman who endlessly criticized and destroyed a British company in the past administration for his two companies to surround the multi-billion worth of projects under the PBP.
as well as the projects in Greater Maritime Access or GMA.
grandmother of all scams
but now, the congressman encountered a headache because Senator Serge Osmeña said that his two companies were involved in anomaly and even called it "the grandmother of all scams".
the projects are composed under the PBP in building bridges and in Greater Maritime Access for the building of pier for the roll-on, roll-off.
the congressman succeeds in destroying others and they have cornered all the projects in the said two projects.
Mabey and Johnson and Eiffel Mattier
according to Osmeña, the congressman becomes an agent for the Mabey & Johnson and Eiffel Mattier.
these two companies have bad records.
the Mabey and Johnson is a British company and being investigated by the government of Great Britain for their excessive profit in building bridges funded by the Official Development Assistance from the said country.
and this Eiffel Mattier which is a French company became really famous when it sued our government for cancelling its 66 contracts for the roll-on, roll-off projects in the last days of the administration of Madam Gloria.
the projects are cancelled because these are actually not needed and do not have the appropriate feasibility study before these are built.
the congressman is petting these two companies to still join the projects for the PBP.
same as before, at large, they want billion peso contracts.
for the congressman and his pet companies to succeed, he gave them an office at Makati City.
congressman's identity do you want to know, my brothers, who is this congressman?
here, he is one of the richest in the Legislative Chamber.
and on petting the two large companies mentioned, he expects these to make him richer.
well, with the high price of the project that they want to take control of.
guessing time!
firing, apparently profiling by the PAF we received an invitation for a shoot fest from the Philippine Air Force.
that one called firing.
free bullets!
free gun!
but only borrowed.
the president of the National Press Club is proud because they remembered us.
similar to what the invitation said, this is for the "spirit of kinship and camaraderie."
did I understand it right?
for the "spirit of kinship and camaraderie?"
he! he! he!
the shooting festival will be held at Lipa but transferred to Villamor.
favor!
becomes closer!
we hope not to shame the invitation of the military in the name of camaraderie.
but when we received a fax message telling that we need to answer before entering the camp, of course, it will record information about our personal details.
oh!
our eyebrows raised.
this is our question. we are not going to put any malice on the said fax message.
in our opinion, "you are inviting, but you do not know who you are inviting?". then, do not invite them at all!
right?
the Ultimatum knows that your aspiration is clean in this invitation, but it is slightly insulting.
because we just want you to know, that we in the media, we are not dead hungry who cannot pay to fire or have firing.
thank you, anyway!
question: is this firing?
or profiling?
I am just asking!
where are the twelve pairs?
one of the feared gangs roaming in Metro Manila and nearby provinces are what they called as the Twelve Pairs Gang.
feared because the gang is almost composed of police who were formerly assigned at Eastern Police District.
really feared because they kill their victims in kidnap for ransom.
as well as their victims who are withdrawing amounts in the bank.
one thing is fearsome, after they have done their crime, police checkpoints do not work because they are police.
who will catch these police thieves especially their victims are killed and almost no witnesses?
the head is arrested the Twelve Pairs Gang is composed of police who are Inspector Nathaniel Capitana, PO1 Alexander Pangilinan, PO1 Candido Vallejo, PO1 Roel Palana, PO2 Allan Verana, PO2 Arden Lanaza, PO2 Daniel Maborang, PO2 Roger Villarente, and civilians Christian Marcelo and Ely Frias Junior
just recently, their boss PO2 Joel Tapec was caught in Tarlac.
but the bad thing, only two of them are caught by the authorities.
where are the others?
