Bitukang Manok in Pasig, Atimonan, Daet and the history of the Katipunan
Bitukang Manok in Pasig, Atimonan, Daet and the history of the Katipunan by Gregorio V. Bituin Junior
on October 9, 2014, we at Climate Walk traveled to what is called Bitukang Manok in Atimonan, Quezon.
that is the second Bitukang Manok I am aware of.
because the Bitukang Manok I know is located in Pasig City, that we usually talk about in historical discussions, especially on the Katipunan of Gat Andres Bonifacio.
Bitukang Manok is important in the history of the fight of the Katipunan because the Katipuneros held meetings there led by Bonifacio.
three historians mentioned it.
two are my friends and co-members in the group Kamalaysayan (Kaisahan sa Kamalayan sa Kasaysayan, formerly Kampanya para sa Kamalayan sa Kasaysayan).
Climate Walk is a campaign for Katarungang Pangklima or Climate Justice, and a long journey, or walk from Luneta (kilometer zero) to Tacloban (ground zero) that we held from October 2, the International Day on Non-Violence (International Day on Non-Violence), to November 8, 2014, the anniversary of the strong typhoon Yolanda.
the second Bitukang Manok I discovered is not a river, but a winding path.
called Bitukang Minok due to the winding path that resembles the intestine of a chicken.
it was here in Climate Walk we explored, and while walking here I wrote a poem on my small notebook.
companion Albert Lozada of Greenpeace saw me writing the poem, so he asked me to type it on his cellphone, which was then sent to the office of Greenpeace to be uploaded on their website.
here is the poem:
exploring Bitukang Manok 11 syllables each line
we explored Bitukang Manok that was part of the long Climate Walk we participants were really happy singing, not drowsy
the path may be very long but it will still end up in Tacloban especially when the company is enjoyable we can't seem to feel fatigue
fresh air, no smog here the mountains are all forests how nice it is here in Bitukang Manok even if we didn't reach the top.
- Bitukang Manok, Atimonan, Quezon, October 9, 2014
this poem was published on the website of GreenPeace which was uploaded there by Jenny Tuazon.
thanks to you, Greenpeace!
more power to you!
the third Bitukang Manok, I found through the internet.
and it is in the Bicol region, in Daet, Camarines Norte.
it's along the national highway near the boundary of Camarines Sur and Camarines Norte, and under Bicol National Park.
the first Bitukang Manok I know, before becoming a part of the history of the Katipunan, is a kingdom during the time of Dayang Kalangitan (who was born in 1450 and died in the year 1515).
she is the only queen to have ruled the Kingdom of Tondo, and also established a smaller kingdom in the historic Bitukang Manok, a part of Pasig.
Dayang Kalangitan was the eldest child of Raha Gambang who was considered one of the most powerful leaders of the kingdom.
back in the day, when the Spanish had not yet conquered the country, Tondo covered a large part of the land, including Pasig.
when her father died, it was Dayang Kalangitan who took over.
she married Gat Lontok, who eventually became Raha Lontok, the king of Tondo.
it is said that the leadership of Dayang Kalangitan was similar to the leadership of Princess Urduja of Pangasinan.
her daughter Dayang Panginoon married Prince Balagtas of Namayan, and offspring of Empress Sasaban.
the child of Dayang Kalangitan Salalila was the one who replaced her, and when Salalila surrendered to Islam, his name was changed to Sulaiman, eventually becoming the historic Raha Sulaiman who was the king of Tondo.
the said Bitukang Manok in Pasig became the meeting place of the Katipuneros during the time of Bonifacio.
according to Ed Aurelio Reyes (1952-2015) of Kamalaysayan, in the early part of May 1896, period of pilgrimage to the Virgin of Antipolo, an armada of seventeen boats paddled from Quiapo, carrying the leaders of different provincial councils of the Katipunan.
it was led by Gat Andres Bonifacio.
they reached the part of the river called Bitukang Manok, and they were welcomed by General
Valentin Cruz, to a gathering called "Asamblea Magna".
it was in Bitukang Manok the Katipuneros held the meeting where they decided to start the war against Spain.
even if some had doubts about this decision, especially Emilio Aguinaldo of Cavite, the decision at Bitukang Manok was a decision agreed on and ratified by the Katipuneros from Batanes to Cotabato.
according to Jose Eduardo Velasquez, second president of Kamalaysayan and known historian of Pasig who replaced Carlos Tech who was able to interview General Valentine Cruz in 1956, the plan of the Katipunan in the successful Nagsabado sa Pasig was discussed in a meeting in Bitukang Manok.
along with the defeat of the Katipuneros in the battle of San Juan, the Katipuneros in Pasig were victorious on August 29, 1896, Saturday.
General Valentin Cruz led the more than two thousand (2,000) Pasiguenos in attacking the fort of the civil guards at the largest garrison outside of Manila.
they seized the fort, and confiscated there were three Remington firearms and seventeen piston rifles.
this victory is celebrated by the Pasiguenos up to this day as the first victory of the Katipuneros against the abusive conquerors.
one hundred years after the victory of Nagsabado sa Pasig, the heroism of the Katipuneros remain alive in the minds of Pasiguenos and they celebrated its centennial on August 29, 1996.
according to Pablo S. Trillana, from the Philippine Historical Association, in the meeting on May 4, 1896 at Bitukang Manok, Supreme Leader Andres Bonifacio talked to Doctor Pio Valenzuela to contact Jose Rizal about the starting revolution.
the meeting of Rizal and Valenzuela happened in Dapitan in Mindanao on June 21-22, 1896, two months before the Katipunan launched the revolution.
Rizal turned down the offer of Bonifacio, because according to Rizal, the revolution was not yet ready.
the river at Bitukang Manok that is a major part of the Pasig River resembles a python.
the Spanish back then called it "Rio de Pasig" (or Pasig River), but the residents there continue to call it Bitukang Manok.
Bitukang Manok is connected to the Antipolo River.
during the 17th to 20th centuries, many trips to the Antipolo Church traveled along the length of Bitukang Manok.
even the statue of Our Lady of Peace and Good Voyage repeatedly passed through Bitukang Manok eleven times.
during the 18th century, mestizo Chinese erected on it a concrete bridge in the style of a pagoda called Pariancillo Bridge, that eventually became Fray Felix Trillo Bridge in honor of the famous pastor of Pasig.
Bitukang Manok today in Pasig is already a dying river, because instead of protecting the river commercial establishments were built on it.
it is about 3.6 kilometers from where a McDonalds is located up to where the factory of Asahi Glass in Pinagbuhatan in Pasig stands.
like many important locations in the country, Bitukang Manok in Pasig is historical and should not disappear or be ruined.
it should be valued by the generation today and by future generations.
