10 factors that Coup d'état stories in the Armed Forces of the Philippines are not true
there are numerous stories published again about the Coup d'état and I consider it as worthy to share the factors as basis that those are unrealistic:
1. the soldiers are too exhausted in joining an actual Coup d'état or in attempts to overthrow the government.
the lives which are destroyed because of joining this could not be counted.
the worst are those who are getting killed in bloody Coup d'état without receiving any benefits.
there are couples who got separated and the whole family is disrupted.
I have a colleague in Basilan who just became a mere guard of a fish pond.
there is a Scout Ranger who makes charcoal in Northern Luzon.
few of those approached me for me to find them a job.
the easiest they can apply is being a guard.
once a masculine soldier just became a security guard because of Coup d'état.
because I am able to talk to them and I know their families, I am pitying them more.
the experience is bitter for those who have joined the previous Coup d'état.
why should we do a Coup d'état?
2. a lot of modernization has been pushed forward in the AFP which raised the morale of the soldiers.
example, when I was a lieutenant, we did not have a Combat Life Saver (CLS) Kit.
we are just tying the wounds of our colleagues who are hit in a firefight with tattered clothes with guava leaves.
now there is already a squad level CLS kit, there is still an individual issue.
if before, old secondhand M14 Rifle and M16 Rifle and there were M203 40mm which would not fire were used, now there are already M4 Carbine Rifles, K3 SAW.
aside from that, the stature of the Air Force and Navy is slowly coming back in the new warfare equipment which is bought.
I will not mention the many aspects of modernization anymore and what I am sure of is, "better than before!".
the soldiers are more confident to gamble their lives in implementing the mission if he is aware that they are better in technology, knowledge and in support systems being brought by the modernization program.
why should we do a coup d'état?
3. in the current administration, our salary increased.
because of this, we are able to provide for the needs of our family.
in reality, if vices are just avoided and plan the family well, the salary of a soldier can sustain the family.
of course, investing, having a business and studying Financial Literacy 101 are added strategies of a soldier.
truly, that won't still be sufficient if we act like a millionaire?
even if someone said our salary is insufficient, we are aware that we can still make a way to make it fit.
why should we do a coup d'état?
4. the housing programs for the soldiers are increased.
aside from the on-base housing of the AFP, the current government has also an off-base housing program which was not there before.
there are already a lot of soldiers who have benefited this housing program of the current administration.
we are aware that this is not yet finished and continually pushed by the government for the police and military.
why should we do a coup d'état?
5. we do not have any connection in political conflict.
even we are angry and fall unconscious of the loathing corruption stories which is making the country suffer, we are aware, especially the officials that we should not get involve here as soldiers.
we are aware of the outcome if the armed groups such as soldiers who are getting involved in things which are for the politicians only.
we are aware as professional soldiers that pushing through the reforms of the AFP, implementing our constitutional mandates should occupy our tasks.
if there are opposing politicians, we have no care about their quarrels.
why should we do a coup d'état?
6. the citizens who are trusting and unifying with the soldiers are becoming numerous.
the bad effects of martial law is long-lasting where many Filipinos are hurt.
if in hiding before, other country folks were trembling especially in far-flung places every time they can see a soldier, not now.
it raises the morale in being able to interact with the masses who appreciate the services of a soldier.
why should we do a coup d'état?
7. we are also seeing the progress of the economy.
the Philippines has achieved the highest in the history of credit rating upgrade where the Standard and Poor is the one who has given our country the Investment Grade status.
high-fallutin' (and not understandable) might be for the majority, we are one with the most number of masses who want our country to progress.
we also want the investors to flock here, the income opportunities are going to increase and lessen the suffering Filipinos.
we also want the OFWs to come home in the time where they can find right here in the Philippines the relief in life that they are searching for their families.
in addition to that, really, poverty is also one of the reasons why the CPP-NPA-NDF can fool to join in the armed struggle?
so, my siblings, if our economy is progressing, why should we do a coup d'état?
(for us to drive away the foreign investors and tourists and let our country drown?)
8. we do not want violence especially in our co-Filipinos.
really, why are we always pushing through with the peaceful resolution of armed conflicts?
we are fully committed in the peace process that the government is campaigning because we are aware that murdering co-Filipinos in the war of the military and the secessionist groups in Mindanao and even the members of the NPA bandits will not bring any good.
if we do not want murder as a solution to the problem, why should we do a coup d'état?
9. we are not going to follow the incitement and encouragement of retired officials.
in fact, there is neither a story nor a whisper being heard that there is an encouragement, foolery or incitement by the retired or former military personnel for us to revolt.
if there is, what are they, fools?
example, the names involved in the current rumors are senior officers of the AFP which were formerly trying their best to stop many coup d'état.
I don't think that they are the ones now saying, "have a Coup d'état now!".
we, the active military personnel, believe that the retired senior officers that we respected would reverse what they had said in the past days against coup d'état, and their serious reminder for us to always observe the Chain of Command.
aside from that, our leaders are listening in our feedbacks.
why should we do a coup d'état?
are we a Sar-com (personal command)?
10. we know that if there are those who are going to make a coup d'état, fellow soldiers are going to hurt each other.
if the incident back in 1989 will happen again wherein fellow soldiers shot each other, the real enemies of the Filipino people are going to applaud: those who are snatching our territory in the West Philippine Sea and the NPA bandits whose real desire is for their bosses in politics to rule our country.
why should we make a coup d'état?
