Freedom
by Maria Concepcion Montajes
March 14, 2012
I don't know how to start the story of my child, Freedom.
she is Maricon Montajes.
Freedom is now a political prisoner in Batangas Provincial Jail.
our relatives are from the city of Davao, in Southern Mindanao.
all I know is, she was born in February 25.
this date is significant for many of us who were terrorized, who were oppressed and who lost their freedom and loved ones during the time of dictatorial.
on February 25, that dark chapter of history ended.
hence, Maricon's nickname is Freedom.
she can't properly pronounce the "f" in "freedom", hence, as time passed, she was called "Eedom" by most.
some time, I read in her blog that she doesn't like this nickname that much.
but it's only time that she finally understood the meaning of the nickname.
Eedom is a student taking up a course of Film in UP Diliman.
June 3, 2010: she was arrested in the house of one farmer in Taysan, Batangas, along with teenagers, Ronilo Baes and Romiel Canete.
a criminal case was filed against them.
Freedom is one of the youngest political prison of the country.
we celebrated Freedom's birthday in prison twice already.
Freedom, I can't see it anymore, sometimes, I don't even know what it means.
after her birthday is her schedule of hearing in court this February 29.
it's been almost a year and a half that Eedom's in prison, and finally, her pre-trial case will push through.
the formal hearings have just started.
the case of frustrated homicide filed against Ronilo Baes was first heard.
official of Air Force, subject of complaint and allegedly shot by Ronilo, didn't come.
caught with illegal possession of explosives and ammunition was the next case filed against the three.
because the evidences are delicate, it wasn't presented at court.
there will be an ocular inspection before the next hearing on April 25 instead.
after that, the next hearing will be on June 13.
the next hearing after that will be on August 22.
and that's if the schedule will be followed - and not postponed like the usual, as what we have observed with the case, the past two years.
I don't feel just a simple impatience and boredom.
not just a simple exhaustion of finance and patience is what I'm going through.
while I counted the days of freedom and justice deprived from Freedom, I can't see the right road the President says.
what I can't really understand is his statement, "you are my boss!", while the government also says "there's no political prisoner in the Philippines."
under PNoy, more than 80 people who had no offense were arrested and put to jail.
more than 340 are in jail and identified by the government as "criminals," because of their political stand and belief.
this month is Women's month.
last March 8, the world celebrated Women's day.
what do we really need to call for?
what I know is we have 36 women political prisoners in the country, which includes my daughter, Freedom, Charity, Vanessa.
it has been two years since we've been calling for their immediate freedom.
what I know is we have more than 340 political prisoners in the Philippines.
what I know is it has been a left and right call for them to be given the freedom they've been looking forward to.
what I know is everyone should be freed from the darkness we are trapped in now.
Freedom!
Freedom! this word is only true to my daughter's nickname.
