Friday, December 27, 2013
are you lucky?
shallow people believe in luck.
intellectual people believe in cause and effect, action and reaction, action and result.
being lucky or fortunate depends on the actions of many people related to you.
if you know the secret about it, you will achieve your desires without any doubt from anyone, anywhere, anytime.
two are its important elements: first, intense and diligent work only will not ensure you will succeed; second, the real key of lucky people to succeed is the knowledge of how to attract and obtain the cooperation of others to help them and provide them good opportunities.
it makes life easier and you will have double the value for others to help you to the best of their ability.
and, what's good here is you learn to lessen and avoid mistakes or bad luck coming your way.
7 secrets of successful people
1. make it easy to observe life - but do not play with it and ignore it.
2. study how to become affectionate to anyone - even if you are shy.
3. be known to resemble a kid due to insistence to learn and excel in tasks - non-stop research and training to improve knowledge and skills.
4. make the life of others easy and lively - if you are happy - this makes the people around you happy too.
5. allow powerful and influential people to own a part of your self - share any skill that can help especially to those with duties for abundant and easy service.
6. level and guard your bridges - in some way avoid forgetting the "bridges" that are your only path to your relationships, communication, and meaningful things that help you.
7. make your successes lucky chapters - every installment that comes your way is an important lesson for you to improve more to always be lucky.
opportunity is inclined towards a prepared mind.
because if you have a plan, 50 percent of your task is done already.
but if you did not plan, you planned to eventually fail.
one wisdom of an inexperienced person is, to not leave things to chance and not believe in luck.
if you want to always be lucky, enact your dream immediately.
on this day, you may act out your future to become lucky, not wait and expect that it will voluntarily come to you.
