new fishing regulation of the country China China has a new regulation.
fishing is prohibited in their territory.
confiscate all the fishes caught and fishing equipment and impose fine not more than 500,000 yuan or (Php 3.3 million) for those who will be caught violating.
the territory they said as theirs is part of the baseless nine-dash line. and the nine dashes on the map of the ocean which they are claiming (but baseless in the UNCLOS) is covering a large part of the West Philippine Sea - including the 200 Nautical Mile Exclusive Economic Zone of the Philippines.
the pattern of China is clear in giving their own declaration.
it started to make the world remember of the sea it covers within the nine dash line.
after that, China declared an Air Defense Identification Zone (ADIZ) at the East China Sea which aims to dismiss its neighboring countries in the east from flying over the airspace it "covers".
it aims to achieve security in its air space.
it is not even a wonder that the next step of China is its latest declaration.
in the said prohibition on fishing on the ocean which is part of the South China Sea, no one can fish on that part without China's permission.
the objective of the prohibition is the food security of its citizens.
China has no violent step yet against those who are violating its declaration.
but what is written on the wall is clear, and the message of China seems: "we do not exempt anyone."
many incidents have been reported where the only recognized superpower in the world, the America, has been made as its example. the incident happened to the ship of America, the USS Impeccable, was reported to have almost collided with a Chinese ship when the latter crossed the direction taken by the former.
as well as the USS John McCaine ship whose towed array was destroyed by a submarine said to be owned by China.
the latest is the incident where China's warship and USS Cowpens almost collided to each other last December 5, 2013.
and the most final, or the display of China of its military muscle, is the launching and sailing of its first aircraft carrier, the Liaoning.
the latest prohibition of China to fish on the ocean it covers is directly affecting the livelihood of the citizens of the countries claiming the disputed territory.
for the Philippines, the Commission on International Relations clarified what China meant in its prohibition while the fishing zone it covers is still part of our 200 nautical mile EEZ.
the report of the reply of the spokesperson of both department of the country Vietnam has a good content.
according to him, any activity on the Paracels and Spratlys has no basis if it does not have a permit from its country.
if we pay attention to it, the country which has the ability to implement its declaration wins.
the Chinese fishermen are entering inside the EEZ of the Philippines.
in a destructive way, they are taking the marine resources of the country.
while they are doing it, the warships of China are just watching not far from the distance.
in telling that any fishing is illegal in its territory without the permission of Vietnam, it has a strong Navy with a submarine observing to drive away the foreigners in its EEZ.
when China declared ADIZ in the East China sea, the war planes of Japan and South Korea flew on the skies covered by ADIZ itself which is declared by China as a direct challenge and attempt against the prohibition.
in facing a similar situation, our country is looking for a peaceful solution against the daring steps of China.
we went to the International Tribunal on the Law of the Sea (ITLOS) and filed the case.
because in the current condition of our country, our capacity to watch over and patrol the large part of our territory is not enough.
but we are on the direction of strengthening our Navy and Air Force.
a longer time still needs to be spent before we can achieve what they called as minimum credible deterrence because of the contradictory priorities.
our country has a lot of problems: education, health, and other public services.
told by our other fellowmen, before arming the guards, education and health of the children first.
however, in the current events in the West Philippine Sea, should we not also prioritize our capacity to protect and ensure the well-being, livelihood, nature and future of our co-Filipinos and the next generation?
in an archipelagic country like the Philippines, a strong Navy is needed.
in a strengthened Navy, it does not mean that we want to have war.
we aspire for dignity and respect from the citizenry of countries.
we do not aspire a blue Navy which sails the seven oceans of the world, we only aspire for a naval force which has enough capacity to drive and prohibit anyone who has a bad intention to our country, natural resources and its citizens.
let us open our minds.
it is time to intensify the capacity of our guards.
