to be able to borrow the children again: Claudine asking Raymart to fire his lawyer!
Pik Pak Boom by Sol Gorgonio (Pilipino Star Ngayon) | updated July 6, 2014 - 12:00am
Pik: Regine Velasquez returns to Sunday All Stars later, where she will have a death-defying act, and she will be featured in Special Duets.
SAS, together with hosts of talk shows and variety shows, will also launch their new dance craze "Ang Saya-Saya" in here.
pak: the opinion on a young actress by waiters and waitresses of a bar in Visayas changed, when she had a show in that place.
our source just doesn't know how many bottles of beer the young actress had, but he is sure that she drank there an even ordered some light food as her snacks.
after she drank, the bill was given to her but she suddenly complained because she needed to pay too many things that was supposedly placed in her bill.
she no longer wanted to pay the bill because supposedly many things were added that she did not order.
good thing some production staff who managed her show were there, so they just told the waiter to not charge her anymore, and they will take care of it.
the waiter returned to the young actress and said her productions staff will just pay for it.
"okay," was the only reply of the young actress then she left, getting away with free drinks and snacks.
boom panes!
boom: turns out Raymart Santiago had hung out with his children with Claudine Barretto two times.
it looks like the couple's talks in front of the court went well, but the latest we heard, the actor was not able to hang out with his children.
does their argument with the lawyers, which angered Claudine, have something to do with this?
Raymart's lawyer, Attorney Ruth Castelo, is blamed by Claudine why there is chaos again.
what we heard, Raymart and she will only make up if he will fire his lawyer Attorney Castelo.
so Attorney Castelo was hoping to withdraw as lawyer of Raymart, but the actor did not permit it.
as of press time, Attorney Castelo is still the legal counsel of Raymart and he has not been fired yet.
