letter: rightful to disqualify Anakbayan
by letter to the editor
October 22, 2012
Orly Marcellano of Fellows-TK
the militant movement of farmers in the region of Southern Tagalog are standing on the principle that the heated call to disallow the Akbayan group from running in the party-list elections is right and legitimate.
with the increase of the poor in the villages which combined and organized the militant tradition of struggle for land, the state is still desperate in supporting and spreading a deceitful ideology by those pretending as farmer's organization (pseudo-farmer's organization).
the groups such as UNORKA, PAKISAMA, PARRDS, PARAGOS, PAMMBUKID-KA, KASAKA-TK, KMBP, CARET, AR NOW, CENTRO-SAKA and PEACE Foundation (Araro PL) are associates of Akbayan which are pretending as farmer's organizations.
these organizations are serving as special agents of the psychological war of the government and the AFP to deviate the path of the masses of farmers from the liberal aspirations and maintain the feudal and semi-feudal reign in the villages.
recorded 20 (20) smaller groups of reformists and pretending as farmer's organization in the region.
they are attempting to tie the class of farmers to reformation, destroy the base of the militant movement and cooperation of the poor in the villages to continue the exploitation and reign of landlords and their accomplices.
the record of deceit of Akbayan is long and its accomplices of pseudo-farmer's organization to the mass of farmers in the country.
the irrigation in the villages will be dried out of water, but not the dirty list of deceit, snatching and stealing of Akbayan and its groups to the meager livelihood of farmers.
the deceived farmers are the primary well of funds and fake power enjoyed by Akbayan!
land agent
the selling of land is widespread and asking the farmers in Southern Tagalog to surrender their rights led by Akbayan.
pretending to organize the farmers, will blow a confrontation to the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) as if implementing the fake land reform which is the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP).
advance a clinching rally and long camping in front of DAR.
and then later, their fight will be told as something in the win-win solution by receiving the Certificate of Land Ownership Award (CLOA), which is unknown from the knowledge of the farmers, has already been dealt by the animal leaders and organizers of Akbayan to the landlords and real estate developer!
DAR will make a scene again in a give-taken-back scheme of the CLOA in a simple reason that the land is non-agricultural, not suited for agriculture, zoning ordinance and whatever reason which will be bravely accepted with shame by Akbayan to feed to the farmers to just let them take back the CLOA, anyway, they will be paid with a damage compensation.
what can be learned from the pitiful Pedro Pilapil, accept the CLOA because this has already been sold!
after the payment, the pockets of the leaders and organizers of the Akbayan are full with the huge commission that they have gotten as agents of the land.
isn't it what the story is all about during the trend of selling lands in Cavite that the leaders of Unorka are carrying sacks of money to the villages of farmers?
and who are they to bring the money?
this kind of gluttony of the Akbayan and its group accomplices rules in many places of the region.
the farmers in Silang, Cavite and Hacienda Yulo in Canlubang, Calamba City know this very well.
CAFGU recruiter
the fake farmer's organization of Akbayan in Southern Tagalog is a primary agent of the government, the landlords, and even the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) as recruiter of CAFGU (Civillian Armed Forces Geographical Unit).
particularly in the province of Quezon, the group FMBP or Farmers' Movement in Bondoc Peninsula is actively conniving with the AFP.
there are members of KMBP who are also members of the CAFGU.
they are the machinery of the AFP in South Quezon and Bondoc Peninsula in spreading black propaganda against the progressive and militant farmer's organization in the localities.
they cannot deny this because the statement released by KMBP is almost the same and those which suddenly appear with whatever names of organization that you have not even heard before.
if the AFP is not full of ass wipers, the placards and destructive forces are just the same.
the militant movement of the farmers in the region knows that the AFP has no capacity to write and think slogans released by fake farmers' organization.
therefore, as replacement of the stupid writer of the AFP is the too brilliant writer of Akbayan!
the AFP and the bastard leaders of Akbayan cannot deny that they are serving the interests of each other.
campaign "resign Secretary Virgilio delos Reyes"
Akbayan reached a grand scheme when it rode with the DAR Employee's Association (DAREA) to call for the resignation of Secretary Delos Reyes.
rallying now in front of DAR is the call "extend CARP! Secretary Delos Reyes, resign!"
the reality - the Akbayan only wanted to put their bet Arlene "Kaka" Bag-ao in the position as the secretary of DAR!
should we still wonder about this?
when this was even dreamed once by Risa Hontiveroz-Baraquel.
that is why the landlord Noynoy Aquino is applauding this maneuver because, surely, if Akbayan sits on DAR, surely, they will feast on the rotten corpse of the CARP through the CARP Extension with Reforms which they have schemed themselves.
the end - Hacienda Luisita will not be distributed!
Coco Levy funds
and because most of the leaders and representatives of Akbayan are in the government, they are smoothly flowing the anomalous coco levy funds towards the National Anti-Poverty Commission (NAPC) being led now by Joel Rocamora whose career as political analyst failed
a glittering P56.5 billion is transferred to the office of the NAPC!
this will be used for what is called as the "Poverty Reduction Roadmap of the Coconut Industry."
the NAPC is leading in the Presidential Task Force to fight against poverty in the country.
included here is the "To Pass Through Program" of the Department of Social Welfare and Development and the Land Tenure Improvement of DAR which is being funded from the general fund of the government.
really shameless!
just to sprinkle a perfume to the effusing putrid smell of the landlord government, stealing even the money of the coconut farmers.
drunkards
the militant movement of farmers will never pass the shamelessness of the Akbayan through its group Task Force Fortunate (TFF) when they let the farmers of Negros march 1,200 kilometers last 2007.
they have already deceived the farmers after they have profited much from the funds they took from the funding agencies, church people, and other organization that they have corrupted, who believed that they are faithfully serving the farmers, the leaders and organizers of Akbayan has guts to disrespect the farmers face to face.
when the delegation of marching farmers reached the National Capital Region and temporarily stationed at Caritas Manila, their slippers are worn off and the callouses of the farmers are thick.
and where are the shameless leaders and organizers of Akbayan and TFM?
they are in a hotel, cooling off with the air-conditioned room and drinking!
a gossip?
no!
the militant movement of farmers of Southern Tagalog can prove this story.
the long camping of Akbayan is repeatedly happening and the pseudo-farmer's organization mentioned earlier are doing it in front of DAR.
notice that after few days, there are farmers who will be left in the campsite while their leaders and organizers are nowhere to be found.
the neighboring camp of Kasama-TK in front of DAR can be visited today.
know the condition of the farmers who are put in uncertainty by Akbayan.
they are the evidence of the shame given by Akbayan to the oppressed farmers in the country!
debate is already done
there is no more to debate on, just because of different ideologies, belief and principle, so there is a war is happening between the Akbayan and the national democratic organization in the country.
the debate about that has ended already.
the Filipino nation should not belittle this happening conflict as a simple street debate.
the issue now is above the real representative of Akbayan.
they are in the government.
whoever is upholding the program and regulation of the government has never been a leftist.
Akbayan is reactionary.
and the attacks given by the national democratic movement to Akbayan is beyond the ideological issue.
they are representatives of the landlord President which are hated by the class of farmers and other oppressed sectors of the Filipino society.
