is it another lie, PNoy?
a liar is a sibling of a thief!
a repetitive saying but real.
in the attendance of Benigno Simeon Aquino 3 (BSA3) in the past Foreign Correspondents Association of the Philippines (FOCAP) released in the People's Television and aired in different radio station, with all his strength, he boasted what his administration has done.
the struggle of his regime against corruption is the most colorful (?).
he was asked by Filipino and foreign journalists about the issue on corruption and the case of the Luneta siege, three years had passed.
let us take first what Noynoy and an official from China, China Premier Li Kequiang have discussed.
PNoy's answer if they he had talked with the leader of China about what happened in Luneta when they attended the Southeast Asia Economic Leaders' Forum held in Brunei, they had not.
child of seventy-seven white sheep.
there, the Chinese leaders are mad and called him (Noynoy) as full of lies!
even China Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hua Chunying himself have confirmed that indeed Aquino and Kequiang discussed in solving the Hong Kong issue.
what is this, BSA3?
about the issue of fighting against corruption, Noynoy boasted that light is slowly seen to totally dispel the corruption in the country.
those who emptied out the treasury of the nation - in the time of Gloria Macapagal - Arroyo - will be filed a case, convicted and jailed.
he also did this lies at FOCAP.
when Senator Jinggoy Estrada exposed the P50 million reward for each senator to vote to impeach the former Supreme Court Justice Renato Corona, at first, his co-senators denied it to death, as well as the 188 crocodile congress people.
not true, BSA3 said.
but everything is exposed after Budget Secretary Butch Abad spoke that it was part of the Priority Development Acceleration Fund (PDAF) with the help of the Disbursement Allocation Fund (DAP).
the country knows about PDAF or pork barrel but DAP, what is that?
while Drilon, Abad, and PNoy defended that it (DAP) is proper and the new "milking" scheme of the Malacañang is illegal, the constitutionalists Joaquin Bernas, Professor Benjamin Diokno and Professor Leonor Briones have initially revolted against this, especially ex-Senator Joker Arroyo and Ping Lacson who are said to have received the pork barrel from DAP.
it is natural for Joker and Ping to get mad because they know that they have not gotten their pork barrel since they became senators.
and then, the P130 billion Malampaya Fund under the Aquino regime is intact.
there, even the National Treasurer himself has said that, it was spent out, nothing, no more funds here.
where did you bring the funds?
is it all lies, PNoy?
