we can: priority should be given to agriculture and health by Harvey Keh.
August 23, 2016
this week, the discussion began for President Rodrigo Duterte's requested P3.3 trillion budget for 2017.
what's shocking in this amount is the sudden increase of budget of the office of Duterte which during the time of President Benigno 'Noynoy' Aquino III had a budget of only three billion pesos but in the requested budget of Duterte it increased to P20 billion.
according to Budget Secretary Benjamin Diokno, five billion pesos of this budget will be used to organize the ASEAN conference here in our country next year, but still the increase in the budget of the Office of the President is enormous.
of course, if the budget of the office is increased, there are number of departments where budgets are deducted, and one of the biggest deduction is from Department of Health (DOH) where an estimated 30 billion pesos was inferred.
if this deduction will push through, many health services will surely be minimized for ordinary citizens.
even now, we already have inadequate medicines and other equipment in our public hospitals; how much more in the next years when there will be a big deduction in the budget of DOH?
health is important in our community; because if one member of the family is sick, the salary or savings of the family are used up.
if the bread winner of the family gets sick, surely, it will bring hunger to the family.
this is also one of the reasons why our fellow citizens are buried in debts; instead of saving for their future, it is consumed in buying medicines for their loved ones.
if only the healthy system in our country is organized, we can fight poverty better.
another department that got a cut is the Department of Agriculture (DA).
Duterte promised to pay attention to our farmers and fishermen, hence, he should have increased the budget of DA to give more help to those who feed our country.
our farmers have lots of problems; one is the destruction of crops during typhoon, which consequently requires them to loan money to plant again.
because of this, they are buried in debt and makes it difficult for them to rise; hence, DA should be given a higher budget to help our farmers with the problems they're facing.
