Pastor Ariel Hernandez proves that it is possible to change a ruined life.
posted by penpowersong
Pastor Ariel Hernandez... proof
that it is possible to change a ruined life.
by Apolinario Villalobos
when Perpetual Village 5 in Bacoor City (Cavite) opened, I was one of the first occupants, and also became the first president of the Homeowners Association.
we had a hard time then. because of our haste to move immediately, we did not wait for it to have street lights and proper roads anymore.
what we did was to be extremely patient in dealing with the traffic in Zapote, Las Piñas when going to work because there was no Coastal Road back then.
after one year, a couple from Makati, Ariel and Precy Hernandez and their little child, Jaymie, transferred to the subdivision.
when I visited to welcome them to our place, I found out that Ariel was a basketball player so I immediately asked him to be the sports and youth officer of the homeowners association.
I was not shamed because he graciously permitted even if he has a job in the bank from Monday to Friday and sometimes until Saturday.
I was not disappointed in appointing him because just after a few weeks, the youth in our place immediately became active.
his recognition as a basketball coach reached the "farm" and nearby subdivisions that are also covered by our barangay.
since then, when basketball is mentioned, it is Ariel who immediately crosses the minds of those who hear it.
even then I already saw a compassionate attitude in him - easily handing out money for those in need even if nothing remains in his pocket.
others who do not know him that well are just intimidated, because in his youth and while he was with us, he seemed like a "wall", because he had a large body, was somewhat tall, and had a thundering voice.
it was also Ariel who encouraged the homeowners to go jogging from our place to Imus Cathedral/Plaza every Sunday at dawn.
those who are lazy to get up can't do anything because he works hard to rouse the homeowners at dawn, and with his big voice, anyone he calls will really wake up.
he was also one of those who worked hard to build the basketball court in our subdivision.
his temperance gave in because of trying too much to get along with friends that led to his frequent drinking which became the reason for the couple's recurring fights.
they are like family to me, so I often gave him advice but because he was still young then, he also often forgets my pieces of advice.
in spite of everything, Ariel did not fail to carry on with the goal that he started, which is to impart his knowledge in basketball to the youth.
he was also able to encourage the parents of the youth to play when there is a special occasion or as a pastime.
after a few years, they moved to Camella Homes at Bayang Luma 3, in Imus City.
their move was a huge deal because, in a way, Precy was able to distance him from friends who like to drink.
however, it was inevitable that he will be visited by them, and with newbies too, which was why his supposed voyage on the "new path" was postponed.
nevertheless, Ariel still continued sharing his knowledge in basketball with the youth of Barangay Lumang Bayan 3, which he started in 2006.
(I will blog separately about the advocacy on the field of basketball because the challenges that he faced in order to fully succeed and be more famous were also colorful).
the misunderstanding between the couple led to hurt feelings, until his wife temporarily left Ariel to live with their child, Jaymie, who already had a family.
the intentional separation lasted for almost a year, but his eldest sibling and brother-in-law, named Nora and Jett Crisostomo, served as a bridge in convincing Precy to return to their home.
this time, they became active in spiritual sharing so they also hosted a bible study in their garage.
because the desire to change was seen in Ariel, he was made to study to become a pastor of WWCF-Imus with the leadership of Pastor Eli Famorcan.
Pastor Ariel is now among the ministers of the Word for the World Christian Fellowship-Worldwide and is assigned in Noveleta.
in the group of pastors, he was the "eldest" when it comes to age, but the "youngest" when it comes to experience because he started in the ministry only in 2010.
it is not easy to be appointed as a minister of a church that is newly "planted" in a community because twice the effort in introduction is needed in order to attract members.
pastors who are being followed by old allies are lucky because they are able to help in spreading the faith.
also included is the responsibility of gathering funds because they rely only on love offerings or tithes from followers.
nevertheless, Pastor Ariel endured all the challenges when he was fleetingly assigned in Imus, General Trias, and currently in Noveleta.
he humbly admitted that he was weak in English, so as much as possible, it is Tagalog that he uses.
his use of Tagalog was effective and good, and he bases what he shares from real events in the environment and life of people.
for instance, he can manage to expound a simple message from the Bible, so it can be applied to the lives of those who are listening to him by giving examples that can be seen around.
he may have unintentionally patterned his "preaching style" to be similar to the ones used by "Born Again Christian" preachers, whose gatherings are mobbed by thousands of followers.
he is not the type of preacher whose speeches are mostly quoted from the Bible, which I think is "complicated" because it will cause confusion to the listeners.
how, for example, can hypocrisy or hypocrisy be ingrained in the mind of the listener if what is said are all from the Bible, when there are many things that can be mentioned from events in our surroundings which can open their minds?
whereas, what happened to Pastor Ariel proves that all persons who have the aspiration to change have a chance to achieve this as long as he works hard.
also amazing is the avoidance of his wife because of their misunderstanding before, which was why it did not lead to their absolute separation.
the perseverance of their friends who mediated can also be added to this, which was why the damage in their relationship as a couple was completely resolved.
to strengthen the love that became stronger the second time around, the whole family is bonding in the home of Jaymie, together with her husband, Aris (Gatdula), and two children, Lance Quint at Luke James.
Jaymie is an only child who was not able to pursue being a lawyer like her grandfather, the father of Ariel, but was luckily able to work at the Regional Trial Court in Las Piñas.
Precy, meanwhile, works at the Regional Trial Court in Imus.
Pastor Ariel is lucky because those who believe him include the current mayor of Imus City, Emmanuel Maliksi, who appointed him as a sports consultant since 2008, and Joe Lipa, consultant of Mahindra-Kia, who is able to help him obtain a sports scholarship for deserving graduates of the basketball clinic held by the King David Basketball Camp.
many youth who have gone astray were changed by the basketball clinic of Pastor Ariel.
some had more confidence in themselves so they were able to finish their studies, or became a manager in the company they worked in, and others were able to work abroad.
Pastor Ariel preaches about his principles in life about unity among people which could happen if understanding one another will prevail, especially among those with different beliefs and religions.
I just felt inferior when he told me that principle was strengthened even more by the things he had seen me doing and how I dealt with different people, whoever they were or whatever their belief was, when they were still living in our subdivision.
he said that in reading my writings, his belief about "universal love", which should be forever, was strengthened even more.
my heart was filled with joy when he mentioned that he boasts about me to his co-pastors and friends.
but most of all, I was happy because there is apparently someone who is spreading the advocacy that became my guide in life.
and a new Christian pastor at that!
