reinvestigation of SAF 44, do not use for campaign
posted by: Almar Danguilan
on January 7, 2016
in opinion
exactly one year on January 25, 2016 since Mamasapano massacre - 44 brave members of PNP Special Action Force (SAF) were slaughtered like animals in the said incident.
it is already the anniversary of the tragedy but where is the justice promised by our president Noynoy to the family left behind of those who were killed.
where is PNoy's promise?
were there any jailed among the rebels?
none!
and instead, until now, PNoy still wants or gives more importance on insisting his BBL which is in favor of the rebels at Mindanao.
well, our fellow countrymen are used to promises of the Aquino government without anything happening or if there is any... where?
who are those who benefited?
are those the Filipinos or PNoy and PNoy's lackeys?
on January 25, the first anniversary of SAF 44, most likely there will be an event prepared by the SAF for their fellow comrades as memorial of their heroism when they were killed.
will the president even attend the occasion?
highly unlikely especially since nothing has happened in the case for our pitiful police.
aside from the huge possibility that the Palace will ignore this because back then, when the corpses of the 44 came to the airport, PNoy did not care, correction, but had a prior and more important appointment then - to attend the occasion of Mitsubishi.
so that was why, it is not because the president does not care.
you have to understand our president, besides his days are numbered in Malacañang.
when will our heroes achieve justice?
well, even general Antonio Luna did not receive, until now, the justice for his murder - by traitors, what more for the SAF 44.
isn't it right, dear president?
so fellow countrymen, the promise was made to the families of SAF 44, do you want it fulfilled too?
presently, the issue of SAF 44 is once again hot, not only because nothing is happening in their case but because some legislators want to open the case again or the investigation about it.
more information are said to be known by some legislators about the incident.
there is nothing bad in opening again the investigation on SAF 44 to once and for all discover what additional information about the event or the baiting of our police.
but, hopefully there would be no streak of politics in the plan.
no signs of self interest.
we all know that the election fever is on for the 2016 national and local elections.
hope that SAF 44 will not be used especially by candidates against the administration.
we might remember, when the issue of SAF 44 was hot, the popularity rating of PNoy dropped and of course, this affected his candidate Mar Roxas especially since he had nothing to do with the operation back then.
which is why, if ever the investigation on SAF 44 will be opened again, the ones who would benefit are those killed and the loved ones they left behind, and not our shameless candidates or politicians.
