the ongoing tragedy of the victims of Yolanda and the government by Pher Pasion November 7, 2014 one day before the commemoration of the grim assault of typhoon Yolanda, progressive groups marched to Mendiola together with some victims.
there are traces of grief, regret and anger in them caused by the government's neglect.
one year after the tragedy, the memories of typhoon Yolanda remain on the sight of Mabini Cajes, 38, from Salvacion, Samar.
his wife and two children who passed away in the typhoon's assault will also remain in his heart.
Cajes is one of the hundreds who went to Mendiola in Manila on the eve of the anniversary of the destruction of typhoon Yolanda to convey to the government its continuing neglect of them.
Cajes is a farmer without his own land and supports his family with five children.
because the P100 he earns from farming is really not enough, Cajes relies on loans and goes fishing too.
sometimes, he works part-time in construction to add to his budget.
he tells Pinoy Weekly, he saw his youngest child and wife first which he both buried.
it took five days before he saw his oldest child who got buried by wooden debris.
the body swelled and was already smelling foul.
he brought his eldest child to the church first to be blessed before immediately burying him even if his own feet were swelling.
"the next day after I buried my wife and child.
it was probably Saturday.
I saw a rope, climbed to the second floor of the house, I was thinking of taking my own life.
I couldn't accept that three were taken from me," according to Cajes.
he was saved from his suicide attempt by his two cousins who were on guard due to the advice of a friend because he was acting differently.
he attempted suicide again, and that time, drinking too much medicine so he will overdose.
but it did not work.
story of tragedy according to Cajes, they evacuated to the house of his uncle before the typhoon because their house will surely not stand it because it was just made of light materials.
but even the concrete house of his uncle did not withstand the typhoon.
"I carried my family to the ceiling because water was rushing in fast.
when the water further rose, I tried to dismantle the roof.
I repeatedly kicked it.
but it was just like paper when the wind blew it away," he said.
because of the very strong wind, he chose for them to remain hanging on to the ceiling because the children can be blown away by the strong wind.
"I told them let us just stay here inside the ceiling, come what may as long as we do not get separated.
I grabbed my youngest child from my wife so she has nothing to think about but saving herself," Cajes continued his story.
he added, when the strong waves arrived, the walls of his uncle's house were destroyed.
after the wall collapsed, he lost sight of his wife and two children.
one of his feet was nailed down and the other was buried by wood while his child who does not know how to swim continues to hold on to him.
"even if I knew the nail was bent, I tried to remove it because if I don't, we cannot escape there we will drown.
when I released my foot, that's when I was hit on the head by wood and lost consciousness.
I lost hold of my youngest child," said Cajes.
he gained consciousness again when his child woke him up.
they were carried away by the water to a pomelo tree where his uncle was.
he placed his children there.
he handed his unconscious eldest child to his uncle.
but they were struck by strong waves again.
his eldest child was lost for good.
he and his three other children met up at a mango tree and stayed there until the typhoon and water subsided.
"there, I no longer had hope of seeing my three other loves of my life.
I just cried and cried," he said.
only his three remaining children give him the strength to move on.
no assistance from the government yet
Cajes resents, it has been almost a year but they still have not received any assistance from the Department of Social Work and Development (DSWD).
the deceased wife of Cajes is a member of the Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program (4P's) of the Aquino administration.
but according to him the said agency is making it difficult for him to transfer her membership to him.
currently, to be able to recover from the typhoon's assault, he is aided by the ACT Alliance, a private sector, he insists that he does not receive any aid from the government.
like him are Miriam Rosario, 28, and Jesusa Hiponia, 33, from Estancia, Iloilo, who were also affected by typhoon Yolanda.
one year has passed yet the likes of them have not received any aid from the government.
Rosario shares, after the typhoon, they lived by harvesting their sweet potato crops even if they were not meant to be harvested yet.
they were even forced to cook wet rice in order for their stomachs to be filled.
what is sad, the children beg from the vehicles passing through the roads.
according to Rosario, they were not able to adequately prepare for the typhoon because the information they received was not enough too.
in case they were made to evacuate, there was no evacuation center close to their place that they can go to.
aid from the private sector arrived one month after the typhoon but she said it is not enough for all of them.
according to her, they have not received any cash assistance up to now aside from the assistance from the DSWD's food for work.
but because Rosario's residence is near the mountains, it takes one month before the government can give them assistance from the "food for work" they work for.
"that food for work, we are ordered to clean up our own place when we are the ones who are victims.
then we will queue at the plaza after that just in order to get rice, noodles and sardines.
that is what hurts," said Rosario.
she even added, "up to now the government neglects us there.
we receive no cash assistance even from the local government.
we receive nothing from our barangay."
so, Rosario felt bad when she heard about the relief goods rotting in the hands of the DSWD.
also, with the assistance the government receives but does not reach them.
"honestly I have great anger in my heart.
because we in Estancia in Ilo-ilo have been neglected.
we do not envy Tacloban.
they must be helped as well.
but we are the last to be noticed there in Ilo-ilo.
their (the government's) obligation on us is not over yet," said Rosario.
meanwhile Hiponia lives near the sea.
before the typhoon arrived her livelihood is from the sea.
in the peak of typhoon Yolanda, there was supposedly an oil spill in their place so they were evacuated.
they were evacuated to an evacuation center on the 23rd of November.
and it took two weeks before they were able to receive a tent from the private sector.
according to her, they were not asked to return to their former place since then.
"the government does not help us, then we are pressured too.
we were not made to return to our place because supposedly we can get sick.
but the military are there without even wearing masks.
so some did not fear the military, they returned to their livelihood in our place," said Hiponia.
currently, Hiponia still lives in a bunk house together with her only child, and because of the oil spill, they survive just by selling her vegetable crops.
she earns only fifty pesos per day.
"I prefer to think of feeding my child.
you can endure your hunger but not your child's.
so I accompany it with water or if there are still some vegetables in order to have enough," she said.
Hiponia also felt bad, when an employee in their municipal hall said that those in evacuation centers are all burdens and always freeloads.
"I said, if we ask for assistance it is only our right to do so.
it does not come from your pockets, but from the LGU (local government unit), so what is your right to tell us that?
we did not wish to have a typhoon like Yolanda that is this strong," said Hiponia.
Janine Dizor, 21, from Magallanes (coastal area) of Tacloban City remembers only the relief goods from foreign companies.
they survived by evacuating to their uncle's house in San Jose whose place was a bit elevated.
she said.
she never did see any assistance from the government.
"from the government?
I do not know what they have provided.
seems like there was no remarkable assistance.
we received no cash assistance or anything," Dizor said in an interview with Pinoy Weekly.
the only food assistance she received was when they arrived here in Manila aboard a C130 from Samar.
she and her sibling needed to walk from Tacloban up to Santa
Rita, Samar in order to go to their parents who are in Hiporloas, Eastern Samar.
she added, they tried to go to Guiuan, Samar to be able to ride a C130 because they could not return to Tacloban because of the news spreading that the place was already chaotic.
Dizor admits that she is more dismayed by the government's actions in responding to victims after the typhoon.
"disappointed (with the government) they should first respond first of all to the people but why do we see NGOs (non-government organizations) only?" according to Dizor.
recovery and fighting back typhoon Yolanda left many difficult and painful memories for its victims.
but the government's neglect on them remain a reality and not a memory after one year.
for the victims, the responsibility of the government on them remains and not just about a shortage of basic needs like relief goods, housing and livelihood.
the government also lacks the humanity to face them and consider them victims of one of the strongest typhoons in the country.
tomorrow, November 8, thousands of victims will surge to Tacloban City to demand payment from the Aquino government for their ongoing neglect of those affected by the calamity.
