Saturday, August 03, 2013
it's my last day today
where you were born, what course did you finish, your status in life and how many people do you know will not be talked about but what you are doing right now that is beneficial and helpful to others.
this is my last day on this planet.
later at night I will sleep again with no assurance that I will still wake up.
Tomorrow, if I am blessed to wake up again I will have another 24 hours to fulfill my designated duty.
and I will wholeheartedly be thankful for this blessing.
I will do my best to fulfill my existence on this planet.
I want to express compassion, love, understanding and any good deed no matter how small without expecting anything in return.
this is my principle: I am not a holy man who follows the principles of other people or speaker of rules and dogma of religion.
and this will not happen to me until the day I leave this world.
please, don't expect for me to follow things that I could not understand and nothing but fantasy.
I have no ability to give meaning or explain these things.
because I am giving more attention to my existence on this world; who I am, where I am headed, and what mission is given to me.
we all have our own package that we need to play out.
as long as I do not have enough knowledge about myself, I am like a dried stick that is being carried away by a raging river.
I am swiftly taken away with no clear direction.
I don't want this to happen to me.
there are many things I need to do in this life.
especially for the sake of my love ones.
I have no time for useless things that cannot be fully explained.
the time I will spend on this I would rather spend to be exemplary and useful in the society I am in.
it is my duty be prepared, knowledgeable and compassionate to anyone.
I am doing this without expecting anything in return or for the promise of false prophets for paradise.
it is not in my system to become holy and to become a gentle sheep in this world of struggle.
every passing day, I always need to be awake and on the right reasoning.
if I will be negligent, my awareness will be snatched.
our two friends which are nuns said, "don't trust, and fully trust."
in the dollar bill of Americans, it is written, "in God we trust" it proves, that when you face a person, he is not perfect and changes his mind often.
reminder to not sleep while awake.
I always say even back then when I was in elementary, "I do not go to school to get high grades, but to learn."
in case I get high grades, it's my teacher's problem.
I do not compete with anyone, the only one I compete with is myself.
I try to overcome whatever I did yesterday.
it's my habit to look carefully at the path that I am walking on, and to ask myself: what is my intention and why am I doing this?
does this path have a heart?
if it agrees and on the right reasoning. the path is towards goodness.
and if not, there is no sense for me to continue.
because all I will ever get is failure.
as for me, the only truth is to be true; in mind, in words, and in actions: to become a true Filipino.
