Saturday, July 26, 2014.
true wealth (revised / re-posted): reflection for the 17th Sunday in ordinary time year a - July 27, 2014 - year of the laity.
what will happen to you if you are said to have won 50 million pesos in the lotto?
you will probably faint from happiness or have a heart attack in extreme joy!
there is a story that once there was a grandmother who had no idea that she won 50 million pesos in the lotto.
the problem of her housemates was how to tell her because she has a heart ailment and is already old!
they thought of inviting their parish priest because he was a close friend of their grandmother and another thing was she has been serving in church as a Legion of Mary for a long time.
they requested the priest to break the news to their grandmother in a careful manner that will not shock her.
the priest agreed and one night he came to their house and spoke to the elder: "grandma, how are you?"
the elder answered: "I am well, father..."
and they chatted for a long time.
when the priest noticed that the elder was entertained and relaxed, he asked her: "grandmother, in case you would win 50 million pesos in the lottery ...
what would you do with the money?"
"well, father," said the grandmother, "if I would win 50 million pesos in the lotto I would give half to the church."
when the priest heard this, he had a heart attack and died! hehehe ...
who would not faint with wealth that is this great?
possibly, no person in his right mind would not want to get rich.
long ago, wealth was dug up, dived for, and traveled far for.
today might be easier. you just have to make a bet in the lotto or join contests with a big cash prize and you will instantly become rich!
the paradox of hidden wealth and expensive pearls tells us that we should be ready to sacrifice everything just to obtain the treasure that we want to get.
Jesus compares this to the "Kingdom of God".
if we can sacrifice for riches that are worldly, which would rot and break, this should also be the case for spiritual things.
the "kingdom of God" is for us to be ruled by his blessings and to live as his faithful children.
we should learn to value the things that we should prioritize in our life.
if you are trading going to church on Sundays for your errands then you are not yet ready to be ruled by him.
if you are saying I have no time to pray or to do something good for others then you are not giving importance to the kingdom of God in your life.
if material things instead of spiritual ones are more important to you, when you give too much attention to your body and ignore your soul, then you are still far from looking for true wealth.
what do you consider as wealth in your life right now?
in this year of the laity, let us choose to be brave in giving importance to our life.
maybe we should prioritize the right way of appreciating ourselves, especially our dignity as persons.
let us next give importance to our family.
we did not choose our family.
this is a gift from God to us, which is why we need to uphold and love it.
and of course, the highest appreciation is towards God, who gave us our life.
let us give importance to our spiritual life and practice our faith.
so if we would only reflect well, we would see that we have real riches that we should value.
let us choose what is most important in our life. remember that wherever your wealth is ... that is where your heart is.
