racing: will further fail? by Andy Sevilla
June 16, 2016
many of us are calling when will the new President Digong Duterte allot an attention for a change in the system of the racing industry?
we also received a lot of text messages these past days, asking when will the new administration release their aims or plans for the fallen racing industry.
'and do you know that many of the people who called and texted us are concerned on the worsening downfall of revenue on racing this year?
the 'bad news' which is the possibility of the revenue on racing falling to P6-billion this year has already reached them.
from P8.2-billion last 2014, the revenue 'crashed' to P7.5-billion last 2015.
and if the continuous downfall of ticket sales does not change, it is expected that the income on racing will fall further to a frightening P6-billion!
why did the racing industry in the country turn into this?
all of their answers are almost unanimous and you already know the answer to that.
six races were reached before Balmont Stakes champion Creator left maiden.
but he now has two Grade-1 victories because he won the Arkansas Derby.
one more thing, its minority owner who is Bobby Flay has bought his share on Creator almost three days before the Belmont Stakes.
"the truth was that I planned to bring about 15 to 20 people to the Belmont Stakes, which I do every year.
I had a horse named America, a filly, who was going to run in the Ogden Phipps (gr. I), but I retired her just last month, so I really had nothing to run.
so, I wanted to make sure my guests had a very enjoyable experience.
so, I wanted to purchase a horse to run not necessarily in the Belmont Stakes and there were a couple horses we were looking at."
Flay, who grew in New York, is a celebrated celebrity chef, restaurateur, and reality television personality in Food Network.
some of his celebrated restaurants: Mesa Grill in Las Vegas and Bahamas; Bar Americain in New York and Mohegan Sun, Uncasville, Connecticut; Bobby Flay Steak in Atlantic City; Gato in New York, at Bobby's Burger Palace in 19 different locations.
