AlDub, to be wed tomorrow in a church in QC Maine, has a bridal shower today! by Allan Diones
October 21, 2016
tomorrow is the anticipated wedding of Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza in Kalyeserye of Eat Bulaga.
the much-awaited wedding of AlDub/Maiden will take place in a church in Quezon City, which we will no longer say where because it might get mobbed and they might find it difficult to control the crowd.
just watch Eat Bulaga tomorrow, starting 11:30 AM for what is said to be the biggest wedding on live television.
yesterday Maine said she will wear a Rosa Clara wedding gown and her stylist Liz Uy accompanied her in choosing the dress she wants.
Meng also mentioned to Lola Nidora (Wally Bayola) that Jason Magbanua is their wedding videographer.
"wow, big-time!"
was Vic Sotto's reaction to this.
Jason is the most in-demand wedding videographer and many celebrities prefer to hire him.
Magbanua takes wedding videos like a short film and we know that he is very difficult to book.
in a video message shown by Meng Jason said that the AlDub wedding that will take place is 'epic' and 'off the charts' so he agreed at once when his service was hired.
he showed in his video coverage how grand the said wedding is with 600 invited guests.
we also heard that Badang Rueda who is in-demand in showbiz weddings is the hired florist.
supposedly the whole aisle of the church will be filled with white flowers.
the wedding guests are very limited.
included in those invited are the close fans of Alden and Maine so they can also be part of the momentous event.
someone was able to tell us that the budget of the Alden-Maine wedding is huge.
even if it is just for Kalyeserye its expenses are that of a real-life wedding.
Menggay even said to Lola Nidora yesterday, just a few nights more and she and Alden will be together forever.
the groom-to-be will return tonight from a short vacation in Japan together with his friends from Sunday -PINASaya.
the Potterhead mestizo went to the Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Studios in Osaka, Japan.
some AlDub fans said, it is okay for Alden to be missing for a few days because the groom and bride should not see each other.
they should just see each other in the wedding ceremony.
it seems like the AlDub Nation feels that the wedding that will take place is real.
today is Meng's bridal shower in Eat Bulaga.
