PKP to AFP: stop serving mining companies as private armies.
bureau of information
Communist Party of the Philippines
December 30, 2012
translation: CPP to AFP: stop serving as private armies of mining companies
the Communist Party of the Philippines (PKP) denounced the hypocrisy of Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and the Philippine Army in challenging the New People's Army in declaring a cease-fire in dangerous areas of natural disasters and accused AFP of conspiracy with large mining, logging companies and large plantations that long damaged the environment and imperils the lives of the townspeople.
PKP charged Brigadier General Gregorio Pio Catapang, commander of the 7th ID who declared a challenge, being "closely tied to the care of mining companies in Aurora, Nueva Ecija, Kalinga, Ilocos Sur and Southern Mindanao."
the 7th ID unit is stationed in the provinces of Northern Luzon even in Davao.
"he shows crocodile tears and he pretends to sympathize with the people while his men are used as lackeys by mining companies to suppress the counter-mining struggle."
"It is a joke for the BHB to declare a ceasefire in areas considered as endangered by natural disasters because it will liberate the AFP to carry out its campaigns of suppression of peasant communities and national minorities who are defending the their land and livelihood," said the PKP.
the CPP stresses that the Aquino regime is implementing the Arroyo regime's policy to allow large foreign mining companies and plantations to use the AFP and paramilitary groups of the state as private security guards under the known "investment defense force."
under the IDF program, foreign mining companies are allowed to fund the purchase of powerful caliber rifles and other weapons to arm their security forces to be trained and subject to the AFP's command.
"The IDF has legitimized the establishment of private mining and plantation firms in order to suppress the people's resistance to the destructive operations and land grabbing of these companies," the CPP emphasizes.
"many of the victims of the extrajudicial killings committed by the Aquino regime for over two and a half years are advocates of anti-mining struggle and peasant activists and national minorities who have been defending the people's economic, political and cultural rights against mining and plantation companies."
"the CPP is pertaining regarding the killings of the Capeon family in Kiblawan Davao last October 18 by the elements of the 27th IBPA.
the Capeon family strongly opposes, with all the B'laan tribes they belong to, the SMI-Xstrata company who illegally enters and grabs their ancestral land.
