trusting in yourself. the most important element for success is trusting in yourself, and the important key to this is preparation.
if you have a strong confidence in yourself, you could finish whatever you started.
and all the people you have relationship with will also have faith and trust in your character and abilities.
the most important above all is trusting yourself in every aspect of life but many of us keep on persevering just to find it.
sadly, this is very hard to achieve if you have no faith in your abilities.
if you do not believe in yourself that you can accomplish something, it will be very hard for you to succeed.
because your colleagues will hesitate to help you and avoid working with you.
if you believe in yourself, the joy in your work will give inspiration to others to also believe in you; from your colleagues, workmates, leaders, customers, and friends.
all of them will trust and have faith if you believe in yourself.
the good thing here is that believing in yourself is learned and made strong.
it depends on your effort and approach on how to strengthen it.
as long as you are doing good and improving yourself, your belief in yourself also grows stronger.
the level of this can be shown in many ways; in your opinions, manners and behavior, in your actions, how you speak, promises, beliefs and fulfilling your duty.
your integrity also plays a big part and how you take care that your reputation will not be tarnished.
examples of believing in yourself.
1 - continue to do what you think is is right even though you are ridiculed because of it.
2 - ready to try and exert extra efforts to excel in your work.
3 - accepts mistakes and applies the correct lessons learned from it.
4 - Does not boast accomplishments or wait for praises for his skills to be known.
5 - happily accepts whatever praise and humbly appreciates it.
6 - easy to approach and ready to help whoever is in need as long there's an opportunity and is able.
7 - dependable and trustworthy, no matter how small or big the task is in all times and when help is needed.
if you are not able to do these, you can sure that you have a low belief in yourself and often avoided by your colleagues.
if this is your state now, start to change, it's not too late, there's still hope to achieve your dreams.
this is if you will start to believe in yourself.
