Chubibo: Abu Sayyaf - pointing at DU30? by Dennis Garcia
June 17, 2016
many of our fellowmen were saddened and angered by the news that the bandit group Abu Sayyaf beheaded another.
beheaded were Robert Hall, a Canadian citizen kidnapped by the bandits together with three other hostages from Canada, Norway, and one Filipina.
Jonn Ridsdel, another Canadian, was the first in the group to be killed when the bandits failed to get the P300M ransom they requested.
the ransom insisted by the Abu Sayaff for the hostages has increased to P600 million.
recently, President-elect Rodrigo Duterte talked to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.
he asked an apology for what happened to Ridsdel and promised that no more Canadian will die in the hands of any bandits.
but the promise was broken when Robert Hall was beheaded.
guess who.
one winner in the previous election shows a good example: he refused an extravagant office because the monthly rent for it is high.
instead of the extravagant, he favored a simple office in Quezon City that seems to be closer to his heart.
however, his decision was given malice but at the right time we will know if the rumors going around are true that he likes someone in this city.
50 are dead and 53 are wounded when Omar Mateen, an Afghan-American, entered a gay night club in Orlando, Florida.
he drew out a military weapon and shot the dancing patrons of the club.
he used an AR15 - a heavy assault rifle that is used in serious attacks.
after what is considered the bloodiest massacre in America, sales of the AR15 that costs almost $800 really increased.
many Americans bought it due to fear of increasing violence.
the second reason is because they worry that the government will make the process of buying a gun stricter.
a gun shop owner in Florida is extremely happy.
if before they can sell one AR15 per day - now they can sell 10 assault rifles per hour.
last attempt.
the line for metered taxis in our airport is really long so you will be immediately approached by those with car service "desks" outside the terminal.
you will be greedily priced with P1500 to go to EDSA Shangri-La, while in an ordinary metered taxi it will only cost up to P350.
why is Uber not permitted to carry passengers in the airport so the tired passenger is comfortable, safe - and not taken advantage of?
