bring reality to dreams by Kuya Rom December 5, 2016 dear Kuya Rom, I was not like this before. when I see myself in the mirror now, I think I am fat, ugly, and old. but in fact, I am still young, only 32 years old.
I have a job, have a wife and two children.
but I get depressed when I think I am getting old, my hair is thinning, my tummy is growing.
even my wife probably thinks I am ugly.
she bought a magazine about fitness and nutrition. according to her I should read it.
she belongs to a group of women, and three times a week, they dance Zumba as exercise. the result is good, she really is sexy.
I know it is important to have a healthy and strong body, but I hate the many exercises to be done, they are tiring, and demands a lot of time. I cannot do it, I am busy with many things.
I have no dream of bringing back my older body.
but does being fat really have a bad effect on the life of a married couple?
- Ronnie dear Ronnie, you know the truth, that you are still young for your age. so erase in your mind the lie saying you are already old and ugly.
all the people born into the world who are blessed with life grow old. but it does not mean there is no more desire to succeed and life no longer has meaning.
while a person is still breathing, he has the chance to successfully do and reach for one thing he desires.
your early success in life - having a stable job and loving family - is proof that you can bring your dream to a reality.
because your wife supports you, having a healthy and strong body is easier for you.
because she is knowledgeable in fitness and nutrition, it is easier for you to include your whole family in eating delicious but non-fattening foods.
go out as a whole family to exercise, jog, and bike. this way, maintaining a healthy body will become a hobby of your family. if you make it a habit for your whole family, do it often and regularly, within a year, you will see change - you will have a smaller tummy.
you will jump with joy when you see yourself in the mirror.
which means, maintaining the right body weight cannot be done instantly.
a possibly reason for your depression is you want to have a smaller tummy tomorrow, immediately.
think of this - your tummy did not immediately become big.
many years passed before you had a large tummy.
so give tummy slimming time.
remember, getting sick is a huge expense, so having a healthy and strong body is important in the life of a married couple and the whole family.
