the root cause of trouble Rico Puno will likely be not given a position in the cabinet of Noynoy Aquino.
amidst the trouble and intrigue surrounding the very secretive assistant of Noynoy, the propagandists of Noynoy thought of spreading this news.
Free Spits is able to say this because in the track record of Noynoy Aquino, firings in his administration are not real unless he says so.
Edwin Lacierda, Abigail Valte and Ricky Carandang have become victims of this situation several times so we are not really convinced by propaganda statements unless Noynoy is the source.
it has also been reported several times that Rico Puno will be fired but nothing happened to him.
recently, Aquino himself was "to the rescue" of Puno when he admitted that he was the one who ordered the visit to the office of former secretary Jesse Robredo.
the only certainty in all these, is Mar Roxas does not like Puno because he is not familiar with the character of this one.
Puno acts deeply, is skilled in midnight actions and finds a way quickly when Noynoy wants something.
in fact, it is one of the reasons why Puno became a close friend of Noynoy.
I see the report that Puno will likely not join the cabinet as an extinguisher to the very hot issue about the friends of the president involved in jueteng and anomalous guns sale in the PNP.
it might be shocking to consider, but isn't this the same problem during the time of Erap?
these two are allies now and many of Erap's friends are with Noynoy now.
jueteng and the Kuratong Baleleng problem caused Erap's downfall back then.
jueteng and the PNP are the problems of Noynoy today.
the two both do not like work.
they start working at noon and they both prefer vice more than anything.
Noynoy and Erap are also both known to not expose their friends.
Erap was forced to expose Chavit Singson which became the cause of his downfall.
supposedly Noynoy will expose Rico Puno if we believe the propaganda.
if this happens, will Rico Puno become the Chavit of Noynoy?
Rico Puno has many secrets about Noynoy Aquino.
when clutch time comes, will Rico Puno still be a true friend?
or is he the root cause of all trouble in the life of Aquino?
