Tanauan City, extremely ready for the celebration of the 444th Foundation and 15th Cityhood Day
February 05, 2016
City of Tanauan, Batangas, February 5 (PIA) -the provincial government, headed by Tanauan City Mayor Antonio C. Halili and members of the city council, have prepared a colorful and grand celebration for the approaching celebration of the 444th anniversary of the foundation of this city and 15th year of "cityhood" this coming March 10, 2016.
the one-week celebration will start with the surge of the third leg (3rd leg) of the Solar Sports Paddles Up - Philippine Dragon Boat Tour on March 5.
the said competition will be held in the Taal Lake that is part of barangays Wawa and Boot and will be joined by veteran rowers from different parts of the country and be handled by the Philippine Canoe-Kayak Federation (PCKF).
meanwhile, one "royal enthronement ceremony" is set to be held on March 10 in the Royal Houses of Sultanate of Batangas (RHSB) - an "independent sultanate entity" that is based on the political structure of the ancient Sultanate of Bonbon (currently the Province of Batangas) that prevailed even before the arrival of the Spanish - for the outstanding and recognized leaders of the city.
first to be awarded with a royal title is Mayor Antonio C.
Halili as "Sultan A Pangadapun Sa Batangas," which means "the sultan that will be respected in Batangas".
also included in the awardees are Vice Mayor Attorney Jhoanna C. Corona as "Bai A Labi Sa Tanauan"; ABC President Polmark L. Fajardo ("Datu A Sangkopan Sa Tanauan"); Tanauan Muslim Consultative Council chairman Engineer Malic A. Ali ("Sultan Sa Tanauan"); Captain Wilfredo P.
Ablaong Darasa ("Datu Sa Darasa"); Captain Cesar P. De Villa of Sambat ("Datu Sa Sambat"); Alyodin Casim of Tanauan Muslim Traders Association ("Datu A Cabugatan"); and, Johari Abdullah of Tanauan Da'Wah Association ("Datu A Romapunut").
the said ceremony will be attended by high-ranking leaders from different "sultanates" in the whole country and some officials of the embassy of the countries of Brunei, Indonesia and Malaysia.
and as the main feature, the city government will again hold the awaited and most anticipated "3rd Tanauan City Parade of Lights" on March 12.
since 2014 the Parade of Lights has become the main attraction in this annual celebration of the anniversary of the city that is flocked and visited by thousands of spectators, including foreign tourists.
a chariot race or "harness racing", headed by the Tanauan City Lions Club, will serve as the start of the parade.
the City of Tanauan, the birthplace of national hero Gat Apolinario Mabini and of former president Jose P.
Laurel, was established by Augustinian missionaries in the year 1752.
it became a proper city as a result of Republic Act Number 9005, more commonly known as "An Act of Converting the Municipality of Tanauan Into a Component City to be known as the City of Tanauan," that was ratified through a plebiscite on March 10, 2001.
(Gerard Laresma-CIO Tanauan/PIA Batangas)
