the true enemy of Duterte today by Teo S. Marasigan October 24, 2016
those who believe the heart and the stand of the president should not be criticizing the national minority or the left, but those contradicting the independent foreign policy.
October 19, the national minorities - Igorots, Aetas, Lumads, Moros, and others - protested in the US Embassy, together with organizations supporting them that are part of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan or Bayan.
before this, they have been in Metro Manila for a few days, particularly in the University of the Philippines-Diliman, to protest the continued militarization and operation of mines and plantations in their ancestral lands.
they also established their national alliance, Sandugo.
on that day, the theme of the protest is to support the call for President Rodrigo Duterte to have an "independent foreign policy."
the national minorities criticize the role of the US related to their issues: American companies in mining and plantations, US military training of Filipino soldiers, American soldiers joining military operations, the US government pushing for neoliberal policies related to mining and plantations.
Duterte is in China while the protest is taking place.
the visit is important for what a political observer calls the president's "pivot to China" - moving away from the US which has an earlier policy "pivot to Asia" where the Philippines is important.
in China, as usual, the statements of Duterte are fierce: "separation" from the US not only in the military domain, but also economic; allying with China and Russia - who insist on their sovereignty versus the US and with ambitions to become imperialist.
but shockingly, somehow during the time of Duterte, is the answer of the police force.
when the program of the protesters was almost over, the police violently destroyed their ranks.
aside from batons and shields, which are common, the police fired warning shots and used teargas, which is unusual.
a prominent image of the protest is the truck of police officers that ran over the protesters.
as well as the severe attacks and mass arrest of them.
many were injured, hurt, and rushed to the hospital.
true, they were insistent, went past the police row blocking, but it is part of insisting their right to protest.
true, they wrote slogans on the wall of the embassy, but it is a rare display of their anger to the daily crimes against them in their community.
they are not deserving of attempted murder using the police truck, whose backing-up-and-down is an image of disregard for their lives.
one day before this, it was not featured in the news that much, the military also used water cannons on the national minority in the latter's protest at Camp Aguinaldo.
the national minority condemned the militarization of their community, which continues despite the unilateral ceasefire declared by the military versus the New People's Army.
they also criticized the consecutive murders of Anoy Pasaporte, youth activist, and Jimmy Saypan, farmer-leader, in Compostela Valley.
on one hand, the response of the troll supporters of Duterte is shocking, outside the left, in social media.
they defended the violence of the protesters, defended the police, slandered the activists: that they were not real supporters of Duterte, the protesters were paid, and worst of all, yellow followers - meaning, paid by Noynoy Aquino.
they spoke of the activists as "not ka-DDS" or die-hard Duterte supporters.
protester in front of the US embassy: supporting the independent foreign policy of President Duterte.
Boy Bagwis so they who were driven out and experienced violence in their communities, went to Metro Manila to express their condition and appeal, experienced violence and were driven out again.
they who ask for Duterte's promises to become true were forcefully silenced by his police and military.
they who support the "independent foreign policy" were attacked by those who should have been supporting the president.
and they, in the end, were accused as enemies of Duterte, as allies of those who hurt them before.
within a month after Duterte declared the "independent foreign policy," those against it followed.
for the part of the US government, Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Russel seems to hint of impeachment when he said "serious mistake... to underestimate the public's closeness to the US.
that is people power."
serious was the immediate statement of former president
Fidel V. Ramos, former ally of Duterte, staunch US supporter, and criticized the newly-elected president only now.
Alberto del Rosario, former foreign affairs secretary of the Noynoy Aquino regime, continues to criticize and even called the statement and action of Duterte "a national tragedy."
Vice-President Leni Robredo meanwhile, immediately mentioned the "international aid" of the country - as if teaching the US what to do to hurt, in her opinion, the Duterte government.
and Senator Antonio Trillanes IV seems to call for a coup in calling Duterte a "communist."
according to the editorial board of the New York Times, "liberal" voice of the imperialist US, Duterte "poisons" the US-Philippines relations almost every day.
he supposedly hopes the president's mind will change, "but he could do severe damage on his country..." just recently, Russel said, the statements of Duterte cause worry not only in the US government, "not only in governments, but also... in other communities... in the management of corporations."
jabs on the president as early and blunt as these from the US and politicians are unique, contrary to the continuing wide support of him by Filipinos.
the analysis of the Communist Party of the Philippines, which declared readiness to create a "patriotic alliance" between them and the "anti-US regime" of Duterte, is true: "his anti-US attacks deepen the divide of the ruling class."
it cannot be concealed: the statements and actions of the president have weight and depth.
it has weight and depth because it is possible based on the physical standing of the Philippines and the world, which was also ranked by the CPP: the continuing crisis of a colonial and feudal system, revealing the corruption of neoliberal policies of the US in the world, stretching and weakening of the US in the military domain, and China coming up as the strongest capitalist country that is allied to Russia and against the US.
the increasing friction between the US and China-Russia has been noticeable for some years.
one commentator said, the influence of China on Southeast Asia - on Thailand, Myanmar, and Malaysia - is growing.
according to another, no country in the region, even Australia, is ready to stand for the US.
possibly Vietnam, but more likely not.
according to one more, the Philippines might imitate other countries: "if the Philippines being close to Beijing will seem beneficial, that will be an indication of the weakening influence of the US on Asia."
in this analysis it is good to look at the violence on protesters from the national minority and their supporters, and the resulting reaction in social media.
it is no longer just a reflection of a long and systematic "bias (bias)" of the police and military, even of trolls, against the national minority and poor - but it is surely a part of it.
it might be a move of the pro-US factions of the "oligarchy," even those in the ranks of Duterte supporters.
this is the direction of the analysis of Fidel V. Agcaoili, new chief peace negotiator of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, when he said that there are elements of the police and military who want to sabotage the peace talks via the latest case of violence on the national minorities and their supporters.
they are surely not happy about the peace talks, even if it is good for the country, and about the release of political prisoners, which is even lacking.
the left is a huge block in the ranks of those supporting real independent foreign policy on the part of Duterte supporters.
it is in the interest of pro-US and pro-right elements of the country, even those in the ranks for pro-Duterte, as if running over and disregarding the voice of the left.
even if the heart and stand of Duterte in different opportunities is really allied to the left instead of being pro-US and pro-right - especially on the issue of foreign policy.
Duterte stood for "independent foreign policy."
and for the political forces of the country, the left is the one truly standing for it and for a long time.
they can give concrete meaning to the said slogan.
they support the call of Duterte, but they also demanded from him concrete actions for it.
it is important for the Duterte government to listen to the left, so that their slogan will not just end up as positive words for the rule of the Philippines by US or China.
therefore, if followed, the "independent foreign policy" of Duterte, not of the national minority of the left should be the one criticized by "the real ka-DDS" or those who believe the heart and stand of the president.
the ones that should be criticized are those opposing the independent foreign policy - the US and the factions of the oligarchy that are clearly preparing to drop Duterte, even if he is just starting, if he cannot be made to follow their orders.
the ka-DDS should support the national minority and the left.
