Wednesday, May 09, 2012
where are you now?
your view would become clear if you can manage to find it deep inside your heart.
he who looks outside is dreaming, and he who feels his heart wakes up.
effective levels to success. level 2: perspective is clear. it is already a habit of people to debate, to compete, to argue and to win.
from education, which is a contest for higher grades; at work, which is a competition for promotion; in relationships, which is a rivalry for affection; and even more importantly in business, when the strongest is left in the competition.
if your goal is simply not clear in anything you do, you have no chance to win.
there has to be a clear perspective in order to not get lost.
a clear process of imagination is important. at first you would think. you would have the consciousness to organize what you are thinking. you will come up with an idea and plan from here, and fulfill this. there will be a transformation for this to become a reality. you will always be happy and joyful. your spirit will be at peace until you achieve and experience your glory.
(this can be read on the pages of awakening) this is your inspiration.
this is the basis of those who are successful; having a strong, clear and definite guide towards the direction they are going to.
enclosed herewith are desires, wishes, hopes, goals and ambitions.
from simple imagination you can find direction.
this is your perspective.
if you do not have perspective, you have no mission to fulfill in order to reach your destination.
you cannot create wishes in order to fulfill this.
perspective is of great help in proving and discovering your dreams and greatest ideals in life.
this keeps you deeply focused and helps lessen those that steal your attention.
this is the guide for the fulfillment of your dreams.
the difference between perspective and vision
what is the meaning of perspective?
in my dictionary; n foresight: individual power to observe or imagination to foresee what will happen in the future: the ability to internalize and understand what is hidden in those that are in plain view and to grasp the right meaning from the unexplained: the quality to identify what is real from what is fake and to choose and separate the righteous from those who have no right: give importance to natural occurrences and to correct doubts.
what is the meaning of vision?
n vision: based on dreams that have comprehensive results, the fulfillment of which is in taking action together: the power to see the positive outcomes of unity; responds to ambitions toward the greater good. in today's complicated life, you will understand things better if your descriptions here are correct, in order to customize a solution based on proper observation.
you need to find an appropriate understanding of the jobs that we are doing. and along with this comes assertions.
included here is having a decent job that would help you achieve your goal, fulfillment, contribution, connection and hope.
remember that there are three kinds of consciousness that steals our attention when it comes to conviction.
mentality of scarcity
loss of ability
mentality of abundance
(there are pages of it here that discusses their power over our consciousness)
if it cannot be understood and it appears negative to us, these have the power to hinder and lose sense even if it is for the improvement of your intentions.
abundant perspective: the mentality of abundance. how am I identified?
there are thoughts of abundance and a clear feeling of who we are. what we believe in and what we are good at in order to use our characteristics and abilities.
this question proves the strength and personal integrity of our being, and how it molds our reputation, by which we are known.
avoid; stealing the spotlight and imitating the traits of others.
in the end, a fake personality instead of your original self will be your fate.
do not allow your music to be left unplayed and be buried along with your passing.
in which direction am I headed?
prosperity comes from a clear sense of achieving the things we desire and why they should be done.
when our personal aspirations are associated with our work in any organization, this becomes significant in being an extension in our voyage through life.
it becomes easy for us to increase our colleagues and tasks.
in helping others, this extends and gives a chance for us to serve the needs of the country.
one day Alice came to a fork in the road and saw a Cheshire cat in a tree.
"which road do I take?"
she asked.
"where do you want to go?"
was his response.
"I don't know," Alice answered.
"then," said the cat, "it doesn't matter." -Lewis Carroll
avoid: constantly changing direction and an unknown perspective of where the right destination is, and actions that keep going back to the start; going around in circles achieving nothing.
and there are no friendships or livelihoods formed with the ongoing uninformed perspective.
who am I with?
our prosperity is prolonged by meaningful relationships.
with the constantly changing trend in economy, politics and work, this requires the continuous cooperation and teamwork of many people to succeed.
our significant actions involve friendships, education and practices, teachers: mentors*, and joining professional organizations.
*mentor: someone whose hindsight can become your foresight.
avoid; negative things and those who belittle your abilities, are harmful and envious.
this is the attitude of those with narrow minds and crab mentality.
it is easy to identify them. they are the nosy ones. even when they are not asked, they like to answer and are always pointing fingers.
where am I interested?
it is important to give attention to your activities, where you can put it to better use, your likes, responds to your real ambitions and the direction you are headed.
different people find different kinds of jobs to be easy, lively and addictive, and face different types of problems while being able to teach.
avoid; being stuck in a job that you are forced to like and you are forcing your feet to move every morning as you go to work.
this is a huge obstacle for you to properly reach your destination when you lose interest in it.
what is an effective relationship like?
if a bad attitude leads to distance, isolation and shame, regular and constant participation and cooperation with others leads to a spirit of unity and important things that are really needed and can help us are given attention.
avoid; being selfish and indifferent to others.
whatever you show and make others feel is what you will also get from others.
if what you plant is a mango, what you will reap is also a mango.
what needs to be done if you are are erring?
failure is a powerful opportunity for you to become smart and your knowledge to grow.
problems strengthen your will to move on and to not be contented with the status quo, and forget your goals in life.
instead of escaping from what worries you, face it, solve it and move past it.
this is just a test in each chapter of your life.
abundance is little if you are always complacent. therefore, this is about you heading towards the right direction.
what makes me happy?
abundance includes simple activities, not those that are addictive and are becoming vices.
reading jokes and laughter is a part of one's happiness
joining a significant group that you respect and admire is another one.
you are entertained by discussions; and your knowledge is increased.
avoid; non-stop gossiping about the lives of others, actors and movies, meddling in the life of others that you have nothing to do with, and senseless shows on television and the internet.
how do I face change?
abundance can change at any moment - move successfully or recede into poverty.
you just need to be ready at all times for changes.
abundance can be gained not only from material things, but also in the growth of the mind.
if you have many traits and abilities, you will not run out of things to earn money from
and if prosperity is always in your mind, you no longer have the time for senseless things.
as long as you have an awareness of what makes you succeed, whether it be material or intellectual, this is what you will do for entertainment. you are enjoying and earning as well.
avoid; wandering around and senseless activities; aside from being addicted to vices, you are also losing your money.
aside from being a waste of time, your health is also poisoned.
change; if we can manage to be ruled over by defective thinking, senseless actions, useless gatherings, and wasting time for senseless things, then we can also manage to be smarter, and find things where an abundant life, peace and happiness can be gained.
what makes one happy?
as long as there is prosperity, you can pay attention to things that can make you even happier, you already have the ability to achieve your wishes without worries.
and if you can keep yourself happy, happiness will be with you always.
if you are already happy, you are free to fully achieve that state where in your ultimate goal prevails on its own, and at this point you can experience the glory that is meant for you.
fulfilling your perspective
the main ingredient of perspective: it is only focused on what is truly important and significant.
the proper and correct process guarantees the right wishes, and helps to fulfill them in a short time and with little effort.
you create your own life. mold it only according to what makes you happy.
make guidelines that you have control of, so that everyone around you; people, events, even if you feel that it is good or if you have doubts.
strive harder and make this very easy so you can feel good, and to the best of your ability in order to defeat any doubt.
(please read The Greatest Principles of Life, 07 December/11)
reality
old and ordinary; when drowning, you will not say, "I would be really grateful, only when possible, if one person who has perspective notices me as I drown and approaches me and helps me get out of the water."
timely and practical: when drowning, quickly say, "help me!".
this is the only thing that is needed and no more beating around the bush.
on proper foresight; significant, measured, certain, scheduled, in the right direction and can be finished.
hindrances, instead of being faced and defeated, become fears when there is no guidance of foresight in our voyage.
a clear and strong perspective is an important factor in putting things in order, to be certain and always prepared at all times.
this is what makes wishes come true. to persevere, to finish and to succeed in any business or managing your personal life.
and a student who wants to graduate and be a teacher needs to be an actual student first and work hard for it. if he cannot do this and will teach as a teacher, he will be judged as a student; and if what he teaches is senseless, he will be laughed at and be ridiculed by the ones he teaches.
life is also like this, before you travel, you become aware and ready for the struggle you will face.
until you have no self-awareness, you will have no plan that you can execute well. you have nowhere to start to be prepared in how to overcome obstacles.
in studying: from the student, teacher, and those who teach, this is the process.
this is clear.
truth: a person who thinks will conform to the world; a person who has perspective will try fervently for the world to be in accordance to him.
therefore, all means of advancement and progress depend and begin with a person who has perspective.
when there is no vision, people are defeated.
Proverbs 29:18
an ambition is a mission, and perspective is the response.
"my Father, bless me to have vision."
I always hear this in church being mentioned all the time.
vision or perspective without doing anything is just dreaming. action without mission is a useless effort, and a vision that is responsibly fulfilled is the hope of the people.
you, what is your ambition with the vision that you made in order to succeed?
does this include your intense perspective?
perspective is needed for success to always be your friend.
Jesse Guevara
city of Balanga, Bataan
