
Hitsurang bandits: The kagawiang should walisin in the Armed Forces

Since there are that Army in Europe in the 1800s, slowly, was that the regulations that he nagpapairal in unusual discipline of organisasyong itinatatag to defend the caused to the country.

The pagsusunod regulations of the military like the right kasuutan, that and kagawian, showed unusual discipline expected in a a professional that organisasyong military.

The pagpapasunod in both standard of that and uniform is important for a units of the military so that we can maintain the unusual unit pride, disciplinary standard, and comradeship of the troops.

Since establishment the Philippine Army in 1897, slowly also have written on the regulations like the right that and uniform.
As General Antonio Luna is known for a vicious leader in the field of enforcing the discipline, including the wearing of the right uniform and that military.

The American soldiers the nagpataas on the level of discipline military when the USAFFE completed before the second Filipino pandaigdig.
Naipagpatuloy the training of the soldiers in the right discipline after the war but was immediately nasabak the soldiers of going to war with the gerilyang Huk last 1950s.

Hitsurang bandits

In the 1950s, the soldiers were allowed to magpahaba Scout rangers, the hair and hitsurang bandits because of them iniaatas the sensitive mission like paghahagilap in the stronghold of the bandits and the murder of the leader.
In fact, done by the Musang, Msgt Francisco Camacho Cpl Weenee Martillana the murder of the notorious leader of the bandit Huk, Eddie Villapando nagpahaba, because they are also hair and pretended to be civilians while in the mission.

It is the tradition of the Scout rangers the magpahaba of hair last 1970s and 1980s because of the special '' that the mission where nakikihalubilo them in the ordinary people can't be found in the countryside for the bandits mixed in the community.

Pagwawasto in kagawian

For me, you should pairaling again the discipline of the soldiers, like the right pagsuot of the uniform and following the right appearance of a a professional soldiers.
First, the use of pagpapahaba of hair while in the mission because of the experience of the enemy in a tactic of going to war of the soldiers in the last time.
For example, the mission of the Musang, Strike 'mission' (direct action mission) and not kaparehas in Special Forces who is living in the countryside and oorganisa of CHDF or CAFGU to defend the people from the bandits.
Common sense that the Special Forces in makikiayon kagawian mapadali of people when the acceptance of them to them.
Kagawian in the culture of the Filipino Muslim, that's why the bigote magpatubo practical also to imitate the appearance they as agreement in their culture.

Second, even if the long hair of the soldiers, weren't they know how the words of the netibo in the area.
It is unlikely useful especially when the pagpapahaba of hair or bigote learned that if the passwords and countersigns the bandits.
In the internet is now the story of going to war, including the counterinsurgency warfare.

Third, should be tatalima everything in stated in the AFP Transformation Roadmap where they're hoping for the administration to 'aakuin and proud for the Filipinos their soldiers'.
Who is a Filipino soldiers in the magmamalaki hitsurang Abu Sayyaf or NPA?

Fourth, the good leader, should he had a broad perspective and learn from the experience.
Sometimes, you cannot identify who the soldiers or rebels in the encounter if mix-halo that others't different units.
This is my bitter experience when I reinforce the students of SR Class 145 who were encountered by the Abu Sayyaf in Tuburan, Basilan last year 2002.

Pangwakas, there is no direct connection the pagpahaba of hair and courage.
When I was Tenyente, I made the group of soldiers who does not want to get a haircut and I will as the spearhead of the operation against the Abu Sayyaf.
In the fight, I can see this sumusubsob at the back of the rocks or in a coconut tree the so-called '' warrior.
Did not last long, they want to get a haircut when your other that bandits.
Form was just friends.
For now, my opinion of the nagpapahaba of hair is pabebe and form only in FB posts.

Therefore, I do not agree with your crooked belief and arguments about paggaya in hitsurang bandits.
If you force, volunteer immediately be assault element are always in the units.
It's good if you will be leader, beside me in the fight and I kikilatisin being 'warrior' based on the face, you.



