With asthma or asthma

DOC WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Pilipino Star Ngayon) | Updated February 26, 2015 - 12: 00am

(Also a part 1) in the whole world, 1 in 8 children have asthma and 1 in 13 old people have asthma.
The symptoms of asthma, the difficulty in breathing, coughing and paghuni (wheezing).
The whistle is katunog in "huuu-huuu," like a cat in the lungs.
The cause of asthma is the swelling and being sensitive of the small path of wind in our lungs (lung bronchioles).
If the asthma attack, the number of phlegm in the lungs and kumikipot the path of wind, so it is trying to catch up with the patient.
There is no permanent treatment for asthma.
But if you your life, you can lessen the attack of asthma of 50 of cent.
Here are the right thing to do: 1\.
There is a allergy in the surroundings?
The 80 cent of the people who have asthma, allergy.
If you think about what you have done before attacking the asthma.
Are you tired, nainitan, or he inhaled bad things?
Write in a diary.
Avoid things that nagpapaatake of asthma.

2\.
There is a allergy with the food?
It is not changing the allergy in the food (8 of just cent) but this also happens.
Be careful in the Food preservatives, Food coloring, snack, alcohol, peanuts, seafoods, eggs, chicken, and others.
If you look for in a food allergens and avoid it.
3\.
Be careful of drugs.
There is a person who has a allergy in the drugs such as aspirin, penicillin and drugs in pain.
1) paracetamol is the only safe for you.
Consult a doctor before drink medicine or any supplement.
4\.
Avoid pollen.
The arrival of summer (March until June), come out the many pollen from the tree and hand.
Wear a face mask.
More pollen in the morning, before 10: 00 in the morning.
5\.
During the winter, sometimes, aged mold and fungus the bathroom because he is always wet.
Tuyuin the bathroom after taking a bath.
6\.
If there is a vacuum cleaner, use this to higupin the dirt in the house.
If possible, remove the carpet and rugs were too fast because he is captain of the dust.
7\.
Avoid the pet animals.
Bathe the pet dog every week.
If possible, don't just take care of the animals in the house, because the small nakakahika shining.
8\.
Open the window in the kitchen.
The terrible smell of the food can be the start of asthma.
You will be irritated the smoke and the smell of cooked onions, garlic and fried food.
Put exhaust fan or cook outside of the house.
In the next, there is an additional advice about asthma.



