
The fake cigarettes nakatimbre in the police

Posted by: Amor Virata on January 16, 2017 in opinions

Once he lost sirkulasyon because it was said to be hot in the eyes of the media the widespread fake cigarettes of others't different brands in Balintawak market in the back part of the fruit stand.
According to the vendor of fruits that I was able to speak to, timbrado allegedly with the police the selling of fake cigarettes. * * * every safe is allegedly a P5 for the police that covers in Balintawak market is blind to the police here.
Usually allegedly pumapakyaw of fake cigarettes, Street vendors who in EDSA.
The victims, most of whom were jeepney drivers.
In the amount of 30, there is a safe that they of Marlboro, which can be bought by 70 on the main groceries.
Smell of poop of chicken and pork in Marilao, Bulacan after entering the exit of Marilao, pagkaliwa will surely covers the nose the passengers and motorists, especially if the transport is just ordinary bus, because the smell of foul smell of the poop and the rotten flesh inside the chicken in a river in said place.
Can the foul smell of the river that pinagtatapunan of the poop and rotten internal organs of chicken, water is flowing even if it was raining even malaks because barado. * * * what the officials of the local government of Marilao, Bulacan, they can't smell?
Aren't they inaalintana its effect on the health of their citizens?
Blind and deaf the Municipal Health Officer here?
All the passengers of the ordinary bus was napapasigaw because of the foul.
Don't you sleep sleeping!
You out in the office you and langhapin the foul smell, I do not know if you makalunok!
Police in PCP-5 of Pasay Pacman is a police assigned in EDSA, in front of Kabayan Hotel.
The police who "that does nothing except to catch the taxi driver pumipik-ap of passengers in front of the said hotel.
They say!
Why "those passenger jeep nagbababa and nagsasakay, not catch and not tinitiketan?
Why taxi drivers are only?
It looks like the suspicion is free, which is why the jeepney drivers, there is a condition!
You report for Dragon Lady - Amor Virata



