Ellen, pantasya by Vin!
By Dondon Sermino January 5, 2017 and the happy days of vacation of Ellen Adarna.
Back to work, and he also needs magpapayat, because of the Korean was all he did, he said he gained weight. "Bahalasitulfo maria.elena.adarna: Back to reality.

Number howtolosefatsin10days number daydreaming is over number throwbackbody "number motivation, according to the Instagram post of Ellen, while he was looking for his body, that the truth is, even if he still say that he gained weight, overflow that he still overflow the beauty, okay!
Of course, like before, there are nagpantasya in the beauty of Ellen.
But, there are a lot of struggle, and it seems that was grossed out to him.
Some said that may regret of Ellen all of what he did when he had a child of the woman.
Here are the post of follower of Ellen. "Bahalasitulfo noorhakkiayob: Does not want that I do not want to this woman, it seems that nothing, not even the smallest bit in the body.
Naked naked here there.
My God, where is your mother and father to tell you even if you just "?
Unable to resist, Ellen, that's why he is in mega-patol follower in order to nabuwisit-sexy. "Bahalasitulfo maria.elena.adarna: Bahalasitulfo noorhakkiayob, you do not" "magtambay here.
Kalurks that stress kappa!
Hahahaha! "Natatawang insult of Ellen.
Anyway, for now, it is busy Ellen in the promo by the movie Moonlight over Baler.
He was indeed the pantasya of Vin Abrenica in the movie, okay!
It came from the scene of Vin with Ellen, because he really nahumaling to the young lady.

The Moonlight Baler prodyus over, the T-Rex Entertainment, the story is going around the two important Events, the World War 11, and EDSA Revolution broke out.
Also stars in agreed, Elizabeth Oropesa, Sophie Albert, Daria Ramirez, Menggie Cobbarubias, Angie Ferro, and from the writing of Eric Ramos, and dinirek of Gil Portes.
The Moon or it is clear that the theme of Song agreed, so that this thing to show before's Valentine's Day in Feb, okay!

In Baler Aurora captured the movie, the story, started with a Japanese journalist (film of Vin) to visit Baler, after she cover the EDSA Revolution broke out.
Vin's resembles the soldiers who Great of a love of spinster teacher (film of Elizabeth), who died in the war.

Who is Vin is also a young soldiers, and Sophie who play the young Elizabeth.
In that of a love and pinantasya of Vin is beautiful and sexy Ellen Adarna.
But, many are really in love against them.
What is the kakahantungan of love?
That is the "should watch over the Moonlight Baler.



