How the force smoking?
By brother Rom November 21, 2016 Dear brother Rom, Kami of my wife, new wedding.
Good my Father-in-law.
He said for us to live in their house.
Is it my relationship with the family of my wife, aside from an issue.
His father was fond of manigarilyo inside the house.
My wife said the Father-in-law that I have asthma and is allergic to the smoke of a cigarette.
I told my family about it, because the truth is my grandfather died of cancer in the throat and the root is too much smoking.
Listening and ngumingiti the Father-in-law.
He still continue to smoking inside the house.
I will not be told him.
I avoided masamain it.
I do not want to stain his dealing with him.
Brother, what is the good advice on a chain-smoker?
How we can alights they him?
How the force smoking? - Jim Dear Jim, first, an old like your father-in-law is usually not listening to the person who is younger than him.
Second, you masasabihan the Father-in-law, because his house and he can do what he wants to do.
The pinakamabuting for you to live on their own, you a couple of their own home.
The smoking creates nicotine.
The nicotine is nakakaadik't, that is why it is difficult to stop smoking.
To the Father-in-law, you stop it, he did not do it, because it is possible that she is a nicotine addict.
He is always looking for the body of nicotine.
The smoking is one of the biggest causes of illness and death.
Every year, thousands of people are dying because of smoking.
The smoking is the cause of 50 disease.
This is 90 percent of the cancer in the lungs.
Even if the people who are not smoking, nakakalanghap affected if the smoke of cigarettes.
This is the woman is pregnant.
The smoke of cigarettes, is causing the illness to a baby, and cause infertility of boys and a woman.
What is the good advice to one of the people who are addicted to smoking?
First, and admitted that he needs to see the smoking is bad for his health.
Second, regret what she is doing the destruction of his body.
Third, he decided to stop the demolition of their own body.
Most of all, he will be humble, she went to God and hinging giving him makalangit strength, because he could not stop smoking through his own strength.
Get to know and Panaligan the Lord Jesus.
Manangan him on the strength of the Lord Jesus and strong tayuan the talatang this: "That I can face any situation through the help of Christ, that to give her strength for me" (Filipos 4: 13).



