
The first word in the book Mga sanaysay of recovery

PAGMULAT at recovery!

"Everything was not able to sleep in the time of our ancestors"!
This'y according to Pilosopo Tasyo chapter in 25 of Noli Me Tangere of Gat Jose Rizal.
This was said by Pilosopo Tasyo be criticized by Crisostomo Ibarra when the writing is the coast (or first system of writing of our ancestors), called hiyeroglipiko of Ibarra.
The meaningful said that it is too old to still be at this time.

The real.
It is difficult to sleep in the middle of the danger, in the middle of taking advantage of the naghaharing kind, in the middle of the destruction of the rotten system, in the middle of the violation of the integrity of the country, in the middle of a lack of respect for human rights of each other.
But it is more difficult to pretending to the room.
Like the magbulag blind in front of the nagdudumilat truth of poverty and lack of justice.
Like the magbingi pretends not in spite of says that says the whispers of the pain, the complaint and the hikbi and was having a hard time.
As a sign of being uncaring in the pagtutulug-beds, and it still wanted to make'y umidlip to not noticed the problem in the area.
Not all are sleeping because there is a time of recovery even in the deepest part of the night to save the country, the people, the kind.

But the paghikab, because of the whole day, natutuluyan tired, that we can't sleep and managinip.

It is not good to our dream, magmumulat we immediately to the breath'y chase.
Because the bad dream may cause of the nightmare.
Our bad experiences in the current system of the society, which is why we need to change this and magbangon becomes aware of the system each one'y will there be a smile, to have a system when there is no taking advantage of the people for the people.

We will rise Magmumulat't to hug a good goals.
The good intention for the majority are not required balutan the crooked and corrupt practices.

The essays that tinipon in this book'y as a result of the siphayo, danas and dream to have peace of mind, the heart't to share to others, to becomes aware and the others to rise up from the nightmare of poverty caused by the capitalists have't elitistang system which rules in the current society.
The essays that here is'y contribution in the present and the next salinlahi, and became the reason to help the duty to change our society and be united us towards real prosperity of all towards pagpawi of the kind of people in society, so there can be equal to the right and remove the taking advantage of one of his fellow.
Should not only a few in society nagtatamasa but all the people.
Should have no sanlaksang dukha and a few nagtatamasa in the wealth of the society.

'y munti may help the essays that here in our recovery from a long pagkakaidlip.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

August 25, 2014



