The children, teachers who Lumad that nakipagdiyalogo in, are disappointed with the response of Luistro

Disappointed with the children and teachers of the alternative schools of the Lumad in Mindanao that is not so they can proteksiyunan of Education Sec.
Armin Luistro from the attack of the military.
The Save Our Schools (SOS) Network, the group campaigning for the protection of the school from the attack of the military, that it is hesitant, Luistro that the children.
Again, they also allegedly hinihingal reports of abuse of the soldiers in their community and school.
Nakipagdiyalogo yesterday, December 2, the SOS Network to Luistro pagbabasura memo about the department that was used by the military to okupahin their school.
But according to Madella Santiago, tagaapgsalita of SOS Network, it seems that the course of the same pakikiapg they talk to Luistro in talking of the group of Assistant Sec.
Umali Tonisito last week.
This is the first face "Sec.
Luistro to us, after the two years talking to the officials of DepEd.
Nakakadismaya but he would say that we need to give him again in the complaint of abuse of the military in schools in Mindanao, "Santiago said.
In the conversation, of Luistro didn't listen to the complaint of teachers and istap from the Tribal Filipino Program, alternative Learning Center for Agricultural the Livelihood Development (Alcadev), Salugpongan Tatanu Igkanugon Learning Center and the Rural missionaries of the Philippines with the school in Mindanao.
They ipinanawagan again to remove the military in the school of the indigenous people in Mindanao or will be able to convince President Aquino to ask the military began or even just to use the schools Lumad.
"I try to send the issue but I do not know if I am papakinggan," Luistro's response to the group.
He also said that the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) should be the answer to the issue of pagbabansag school of the rebel New People's Army's alternative schools of the Lumad Hinikayat the secretary to fix the documentary on the complaints and to give them a copy.
Magpapatawag, he is also a special meeting of the Inter-Agency Committee on Children in Armed Conflict (IAC-CIAC) to ihapag and talk about the complaints.
Built last year the IAC-CIAC, by virtue of the Executive Order 138, to focus on the case of the violation of the rights of the child at the time of the armed rivalry.
This is composed of government agencies with the AFP and, but in the leadership of the Council for the Welfare of Children.
According to Luistro, this is the right agency to resolve the case of SOS inihahapag Network.
"Our agreement (SOS Network), led by DepEd and will be bridge mailahad us to all of their documents and the accounts and turn for help with this in (komiteng) Inter-agency" midya, he said.

The secretary also stressed that there is no need to have a new memorandum.
Just need to magdagdag and the amendment to be strict implementation of the Memorandum 221.
"Actually, he is not new memo, because we have Memo 221 (because) inilalahad there is basis: First, there is no eskuwelahang, NGO, private or public to enter the man, the military uniformed personnel are not follow our set guidelines," Luistro said.
But there is exemption for "non-military activities" like "Brigada school" nakaayon and there is a need to set guidelines.
For the SOS Network, because it is unlikely to be part of the counter-insurhensiyang programs of the government "Brigada school" and other civilian-military operation.
It is said to be abandoned of the responsibility to the children.
According to pagkakatiwalaang source of Filipinos Weekly pabanggit who do not want the name, has been given a copy of the documentary on the complaints the komiteng Inter-agency.
In truth, gathered the komiteng Inter-agency last October and included in the case of Salugpongan naihapag.
There is a separate mekanismo, as well as the United Nations Children's Fund (Unicef) to stop the imonitor "child rights violations" explained the UN and is also in Memo 221.
According to the said informant, served the copy of the IAC-CIAC.
Puzzled by the organisasyong are supporting the rights of the child, why not naaksiyunan over and over again in the response of the case.
"Nakapanlulumo the said Sec.
Luistro in dialogues.
After he listen to personally the every grievance of the children and teachers, he idadaan in the process of burukrasya the resolution of this, "said" Gabriela Rep. Emmi de Jesus, to sit on the conversation.

De Jesus also said that they need to immediately face of Luistro because the issue at stake, the security of the children and teachers who faced the conversation.
Not ginarantiyahan of Luistro the safety of them in the refusal to remove the military in the community.
"Should show his strength as secretary of DepEd, that is for him to kagalingan of the child.
We will a him accountable the his department if something happens to these children, ", he said.
Also added that the SOS Network that even though they are dismayed, they will be again in the department documentary on the violation of the miilitar and insisted that the denial of Memo 221.
"We do the part of us, and we expect that will also do Sec.
Luistro his commitment and not to pass in other government agencies the resolution of the problem for him, we inhahapag "according to Santiago.
SOS Network of Manilakbayan part of Mindanao, the campaign of the group Lumads and group pangkarapatang rights in Mindanao to bring in Metro Manila, is the issue of the widespread violation of human rights in Mindanao.
Kasakuluyang nakakampo the more than 300 Lumad that naglakbay from Mindanao at Liwasang Bonifacio until worldwide Independence of human rights on December 10.



