
Lack of PAGKAPANTAY equal, threat in democracy-2

As a short, the lack of to sustain the livelihood of the poor, ends up in the failure to give quality education and decent living their children and loved ones.
Aside from this, it is only nagpapalubha in low that their IQ and EQ.
The lack of education for a hungry because of poverty, lack the ability to make the right decisions.
We increase of this illness and it is impossible to be for a difficult to do anything or to even the simple things only.
Said by Benjamin Franklin, "IT is in the religion of ignorance that" tyranny begins.
If the extreme poverty, the people are becoming bobo and illness reason to prevail rich tirano.
On the other hand, there is no such problems are the rich.
In them to sustain so easy for them to buy a proper food, a good education, and medical kalingang.
Often, their high IQ although't I believe that because of their being lust is also low their EQ.
Their greediness serves as the strength for them to, the more wealth.
The nililikhang tear in between the rich and the poor, he also tear in their ability to impluwensyahan the pul-politician and the businessmen who are in custody.
In our country, only the rich will be the only good education and medical kalingang.
The education and health is luxuries for most of the people that the only thing to do is the only reason why even dream of these, except if there will be a change in the current system.
Because there is no ability when it comes to the economy, education and health the laksa our countrymen, the democracy in our country will become hungkag.
Only the rich is the only nagtatamasa.
In fact, they only have the influence in our lives for the economy and politics.
As told by the President Franklin Delano Roosevelt of America: "Democracy cannot succeed unless those WHO express their choice Are prepared to choose wisely.
The real safeguard of democracy, therefore, is education. "* * * if you want to take a bath in a private hot spring, you went to the Infinity Resort, Indigo Bay Subdivision, Barangay Bagong Kalsada, Calamba City.
It was only close to the Metro Manila and from here, you back the holy mountain Makiling.



