
Militants and tauspusong greetings to Ka Joema in his the 75 birthday and the 55 years of service

Alan JAZMINES NDFP Peace consultant Detained and SICA, Camp Bagong Diwa, Bicutan, Taguig City 8 February 2014

Translation: Militants and tauspusong greetings to Ka Joema in his the 75 birthday and the 55 years of service

I am, ten of other konsultant of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) in the peace talks, and other political prisoners who here in Camp Bagong Diwa, is nakikiisa in many others at the militants and your wholeheartedly greeting to a Jose Maria Sison "" Joema in his the 75 birthday on February 8, and most of all in his the 55 years of service to the people and the rebolusyonaryong movement.

In the span of more than five decades now, napakahahalagang of those who became of the sosyo-ekonomiko, kultural, political and ideolohikal education and struggle, not only in the rebolusyonaryong force and the people in the country, but also in the whole world.

There is a big contribution of his contribution to many progressive and rebolusyonaryong force.

There is also a big, in particular, and continued that this helps me up to the present.

In the middle of the 1971, due to the dismay of my discovered in a year of being part of the management team in the company, it is expected that I will be tagapamandila of the national industriyalisasyon, but there is no desire to and there is no salalayan to do this as well as the lack of interest of naghaharing states in the national industriyalisasyon, I decided to go to work in the abusive, and instead to give my best for ikaaangat of life and improvement of the people.

I resigned and nagpultayam, held a deep research and panlipunang investigation by reading the writings and in the interview to the people to think-isp and ipirme where I with my whole self and my whole life.

I am an nagkonsentra in a study by the radical that rebolusyonaryong lot about the society in the Philippines and in the world, including the proposed a solution to the problems sosyo-ekonomiko-kultural political of the people.

Some of the sulating I kinonsentrahan and natuksalasang accurate and sharp nagsalamin on the situation of the country and the people, and for her to know and deep in laying out of the solution to the deep and is the problem of the people and the society is the sinulat of Ka Joema that Struggle for National Democracy and (with the alias that "Amado Guerrero") Philippine Society the Revolution, even the communist Manifesto and other klasikal to work of Marx, Engels, Lenin, Mao Zedong, and the political Economy of John Eaton.

I particularly focused on the work of Ka Joema because I discovered that it was an important in the current situation and struggle of the Filipino people, while I also pinaglaanan of the time that many klasikal work of Marx, Engels, Lenin, Mao and other deep nagsuri in the situation of their country and of the world.

After I attended the others't, other's circle of the studies and pagpapaikot around the interview of the people who are involved in various panlipunang movement in the country (including the activists and protesters), thoroughly I was convinced that the movement for the national democracy, because of the current pinakatumpak kalasuluyang malakolonyal and malapyudal kalagyan of the Philippine society that Filipinos and the current stage of rebolusyong sosyo-ekonomiko-kultural political who need to complete in the country -- like I learned to the sinulat of Ka Joema.
That's why I decided to ilaan the time I and my life in the current national-demokratikong rebolusyonaryong struggle and rebolusyonaryong sosyalistang perspektiba.

Did not last long when I personally know, Ka Joema.
There are times when we meet of Ka Joema to talk about the particular tasks that I did.

But I was (in the first pagkakakataon) during the early part of the 1974 and was released after three years -- after the expose of Amnesty International, the crime of pagtortyur of the regime of martial law by Marcos against our political prisoners who, and written and we filed the complaint of this kind of crime tortyur.

Ka Joema was arrested (last November 1977) in La Union.
He experienced the brutalidad, and in the entire time he pagkapiit during martial law, he is nakabartolina in Fort Bonifacio and severe were subjected to cruel the restriksyon.
She still needs to hold on to wall of his cell just to talk to other prisoners who also nakabarolina political that the left and right part of his cell.

What is more important, even if the strict that condition of detensyon, still nakapagsulat Ka Joema of matatalas that ideolohikal political and rebolusyonaryong that the sulatin-- and pakikipagtuwang with the help of her husband, Ka Juliet, his tagatala and partner in writing, which gave importance and helped in the national-demokratikong rebolusyonaryong movement and proletaryong rebolusyonaryong party in leadership.
The pinakamatalas is his criticism in some a confused sosyo-ekonomikong research (including the eksaheradong bet on the level of urbanisasyon and industriyal to progress the achievement of the country, against the continuing to worsen and even pre-industriyal and malapyudal that your sosyo-ekonomiko of the country), and what is more important, the criticism from some rebisyunistang mistakes in the existing rebolusyonaryong tactic before, including the adelantadong "Strategic counter-offensive" and the "Regularisasyon of New Hukbong Bayan," that, if you think about it, in the maaagang subyugto only by estratehikong depensiba the digmang town during that time.
He Pagkalaya from jail and in welcoming address the peace talks between the NDFP and gubyernong Cory Aquino, he criticized the handling of the NDFP in the peace talks before and he wrote about how this will be.
The sinulat regarding the carrying the he was handling of this since he became the pampulitikang konsultant the peace talks panel panel of NDFP.

The diligence in the campaign pagwawasto in the entire national-demokratikong movement, reveal the actual condition and the following the advancement and development, are going to the people who attest to katumpakan started of Ka Joema.

After he freed in pagkakapiit last panhon of martial law with some other leaders the political prisoners who, pain time we nagpupulong in the house of Ka Joema in an apartment in La Loma, Quezon City.

Some of our meeting, one of the napagkaisahan, the pagbubuo of the Partido ng Bayan (PNB), the inapo of Makabayan Coalition and the progresibong organisyong party-list.

Ka Joema the chairman of the Preparatory Committee of the PNB, but because of the first komitment, he needs to leave because of the series of activities in another country.
Elected before, Rolando "Ka Lando" Olalia, chairman of the Kilusang May Uno, and he became Tagapangulong tagapagtatag.
I am the general Secretary before.

Quickly naorganisa the PNB in the whole country and nakapagwagi of some position in congress and local in the next election.
But since then, he experienced the nakapanghihilakbot that ekstrahudisyal murder and other serious violation of human people, including the murder of Ka Lando and murder and attempted murder in many other leaders of the PNB, staff and supporters.

His life and the safety of the other leaders of the PNB, staff and supporters and it is also not safe makapagmantine the upisina and office even refuse-after.

I have no other mapagpilian but the act secret, which is often nakikipamuhay and taking care of the common workers and farmers.

In the case of Ka Joema, he are obligated to remain destiyero in another country.
But he was also not tatantanan of reaksyunaryong eatado and the sumununod that reaksyunaryong regime even if he'y in another country.
There is a threat to his life and security.

Did the reaksyunaryong state even the filing of samutsaring inimbentong criminal cases against Ka Joema.
The Inter-Agency Legal Action Group of the regime Arroyo are always busy maghapo't night in pagmamanupaktura of made gawang criminal case against Ka Joema and other leaders of the national-demokratikong movement.

Kutsabahan imperyalismong in the US and the next papet that regime in his country, and put in the list of minantine "the teorrista" Ka Joema bulnerable, which is why he's and harassment.

In the latter part of August 2007, it reached the US and the papet Arroyo in this regime pagkukutsabahan to arrest and he ipabarotolina pulisyang Dutch.
Confiscated documents, computer disks and other file of Ka Joema and the leader of the NDFP.
Because there is no sufficient basis the hukumang'y Dutch to be imprisoned, he was released after the 16 days and brought back the file but that the mahahalahang file.

Even during the time in destiyero and is under the threats and harassment, not even Ka Joema in the continuation of his work and aambag in the struggle of the people and rebolusyonaryong movement in his country and in the world.
His komprehensibong pagsapol and view on the local and international situation and the sharp to clear pagtukoy in rebolusyonaryong tactics and strategies, in the long term struggle and the rich pagsusuma of the karansan and rebolusyonaryong praktika is not nagmaliw but it would have been is and in just to progress.

Aside from the continuous ideolohikal and pampulitikang leadership in rebolusyonaryong movement in the country and for being the pampulitikang konsultant of NDFP of the peace talks panel this, he also nagungulo currently in the International League of People's Struggles, an international organization that the objective is to pursue the pakikibakang masses and the progresibong organization in the whole world.

He will also Ipinupursige needs to strengthen the pagkakapatiran of the rebolusyonaryong party and improve the international movement communists.

All of the hard work and tasks of Ka Joema is proof that the jail and pagkadestiyero--mismo extension of bilangguan--ay that is not enough to ikadena the rebolusyonaryong like Ka Joema.

His hard work, perseverance, activities and the success will continue to guide and give inspiration to our political prisoners who has rebolusyonaryo and makamasang aspirations and, most especially in rebolusyonaryong movement outside the prison.



