Protest against the permanent presence of pwersang military of the US in Pilipinas--PKP

The Partido insist the Philippines of the Filipino people to ipahayag their opposition against against papadalas pagdaong that the warship of the US in the Philippines that resulted in the permanent presence of the military pwersang of the US in the country that directly neglect of the soberanya of the Philippines.

PKP released by the call after the happens simultaneously to pagdaong yesterday of the three warship of the US in Manila, Subic and Cebu that he inilalarawan "three times slap to soberanya" of the Philippines.
Anchor the USS Decatur Naval destroyer in Manila Bay, while the land submarinong USS Ohio in Subic and the submarine tender that USS Frank Cable in Cebu.
The "pagdaong happens simultaneously that the vehicle military of the US, it is clear that being to show that the government and the military of the US, the Philippines that there is no other than their station nabal in the Asia-Pacific and umaakto, Benigno Aquino III as an American gubernador that command of his boss".

Only a few days ago, also docked in Subic the USS Emory S. Land that is also a submarine tender.
This is due to the poisonous garbage itinambak on the coast of Subic by one of the US defense last October 15, 2012.

The the vessels of the American military in time remains to be resolved yet to have the lowering last January of the USS Guardian and the huge damage to the garbage and the surroundings of pinangangalagaang places that Tubbataha Reefs.

"Fully tinalikdan of the government of the Philippines the Filipino people, with the refusal of this will hold the personnel of the USS Guardian and the entire military of the US in violation of the law of the Philippines," dadag of PKP.
The severe ", nagmamalaki of the US in the Philippines aanunsyo one day, they are cooperating with the government of the Philippines that will conduct the investigation about the pagsadsad" of the USS Guardian.

"Should really'y antemano that the government of the Philippines to conduct investigation.
Should pass the custody of the Amrikanong upisyal and tauhang military USS Guardian crashed in the awotiridad of the Philippines in relation to the delayed investigation of their responsibility, according to the PKP ".

According to the PKP, the papadalas that pagdaong of the vessels of the military of the US in the Philippines was made worse by the permanent taking the station of 700 soldiers resistance of the US under the Joint Special Operations Task Force-Philippines (JSOTF-P) of the US Pacific Command.
Based on the JSOTF-P in an exclusive location in Camp Navarro, the headquarters of the Western Mindanao Command of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.

Once again insisted that the PKP respond pawalang-virtue the Visiting Forces Agreement, the Mutual Defense Treaty and other not equal to the military agreement between the government of the Philippines and the US.



