The teacher of Batangas, nagsanay in knowledge against climate change

June 05 in, 2016

The city of Batangas, June 5 (Pia) - Sumailalim of training teachers from Green House gas inventory and energy Audit training as part of the movement of Batangas City to lessen the Carbon emission which caused climate change.
The aforementioned training this May 26-27, itinaguyod of City Environment and Natural Resources Office to the cooperation of the Department of Education and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Building Low Emission Alternatives to Develop the sustainability Economic Resilience Project (B-Leaders).
Included in those participating in the green house gas inventory the 82 public elementary and 18 Public High Schools while there is a 10 chosen elementary and high Schools with the representatives of the business sector is participating in the energy Audit training with the more or less 90 Youth for Environment in School Organizations or YESO teachers.
In his Welcome remarks, said Oliver Gonzales, City ENRO and President of the Philippine League of Local Environment and Natural Resources Officers (PLLENRO) that the perseverance of the City Government to educate the teachers in the field of this is one way that the academic pagbabalangkas makalahok sectors of the Environmental policies and low emission development strategies (LEDS) of the city.
According to fairies Paredes, Communication the outreach Specialits of USAID B-Leaders Project, through the training, the participants will learn the way of pagcompute of the consumption of electricity.
They believe they will help a lot of teachers in promoting awareness or knowledge about the climate change and GHG inventory of their students.
"This is the first time that there is a public elementary and High School who is involved in the energy Audit and GHG inventory with Dep Ed memo.
This is the unique in all we did unlike in other places voluntary, "according to Paredes.
Resource served as speakers were USAID B-Leaders "consultants Marina Mallare that gave overview in GHG accounting and Jeannette Laurente, tumalakay of climate change and the institutionalization of GHG Inventory.
After the training, the CENRO is magmo monitoring of completion of GHG Inventory report and will conduct the stakeholder consultations in relation to the implementation of the considers for energy efficiency after the execution of energy Audit to others't other schools and business establishments nakipagtuwang last April, the city government in Metro Batangas Business Club (MBBC) and USAID B-Leaders in the launch of a huge impact (Initiate, Mitigate, Participate, Adapt, the Clean Transform), a public-a private partnership of he magko conceptualize and implement an of others; t other project that aims to expand the knowledge of the citizens of climate change issues and the localization of LEDS.
Last year 2012 identify the Batangas City as one of the three Pilot cities of USAID Climate Change the Clean Energy (CEnergy) Project for the Greenhouse Gas (GhG) Inventory the accounting with the city of Iloilo and Cagayan de Oro.
Also informed by Paredes on the 15 of June is visiting the city, Gerry Bison, USAID Senior official from Washington to conduct a Assessment.
(MCA / Ronna Endaya Contreras-PIO Batangas City / Pia Batangas)



