
My visit to the 10th Scout Ranger Company

One of the bitter events about my foot units, the 10th Scout Ranger Company, is the vice-dissolve it in 2003.

I am one of the first binalitaan of my personnel of the company that they belong, disband and they were transferred to the other line companies.

The first one I think, maybe the a few mapariwara when the troops mix to other't different units.

Many immediately the 'might' that came to my mind in those times:

Maybe there is no when mentor in their trusted NCOs?
Maybe, they lose the discipline and be stubborn in other units?

The explanation of the administration of the Philippine Army at that time is needed to i- '' downsize the FSRR.
So I asked why we need to disband but not by an official who my tinanungan before the to give a clear answer.

How it was, has not kumokonti the tigasing enemies of the state in those times, why paliitin the First Scout Ranger Regiment?
There is still the terrorist Abu Sayyaf, the NPA and samo't different secessionist groups in Mindanao!

I am in my naipundar Nasayangan tired and sweat to lift up the ability and confidence of the units that it through in the training of the knowledge of going to war, leadership skills of NCOs and integrity.
This is not able to the overnight and you need to be aktwal experience and the challenges that he gives not makakalimutang lesson for our warriors.

We also know that the Scout rangers hung is easy call to fight the pinakapasaway that opponents of the government in the time that is why we also got sad that Yugoslavia was the some of the Ranger Companies.

Anyway, we naturally obey first before we complain.
Murmuring before, even if we continue the dissolution of more or less ten company for merge with other units.

When examined, it is not the roads FSRR but pinarami the fill-up by the companies.
The point is really just, maybe we can increase the strength of FSRR is going to be a Whole and not to disband.

According to the recorded in history, what happened in 1991 that the former deactivated that First Scout Ranger Regiment, binuong again because of the AFP leadership saw the importance of defending the rebels and terrorists.

Because of the napipintong dissolution of our company, I decided to ipagbilin to Lt Mon Gurat that to be sent to me the memorabilia of the units, especially the Best Company Streamers that we grade in my time.
Who knows, is the 10th SRC buuhing again.

Every time I get some news on the situation of the troops since then, it was discovered that they are in the other't different parts of the Philippines.
I am happy when they are unidentified wonderful and trustworthy NCOs to their respective units.

Two of them, SSg Roselito Tayros and SSg Rodel Bonifacio becomes awardees of The Outstanding Philippine Soldiers (TOPS) awarded the Metrobank Foundation Inc. and Rotary Club of Makati-Metro.

In 2012, SSg Arnold Panganiban and SSg Jose Legaspi is appointed First Sergeant of 11SRC and 10th SRC, respectively.

Meanwhile, most of the troops are still warriors and appointed Platoon Sergeants and the staff NCOs.

Reactivation

According to my expected, binuong 10SRC again after the more or less three years that this is disband.
Because I have been transferred to the other units, I did not have the time to visit the streamers and hanged him again in their companies colors.

When I heard, they have been transferred to the battlegrounds of Bukidnon only a few weeks ago, I took the chance that they will visit and the streamers evidence of kagalingan and contribution in the history of going to war of the First Scout Ranger Regiment.

I did not take the atubiling muddy roads going to their lion to at least, to bring back the part of the history of the units.

This is part of my mission this Christmas.
Mission accomplished!



