
So to whom was the state? By Matti Gervas July 25, 2016

Since then until now in the Duterte government, meaningful lot of Frederick Engels - that it is good and transferred to the Filipino language.

Total ikinasiya of Ka Luis, or Luis Maria B. Martinez, the pagkakaimprenta recently of doing source of Pamilya, private Ariarian and states that translation in Filipino of Origin of the Family, Private Property is the State, a klasikong writings of Frederick Engels.

The three decades before he published.
Once honored, Ka Luis of Manila Critics Circle in the transfer of a few more of Renato Constantino like Mis-Education of the Filipino and Roots of Subservience.
Aside from this, he is also one of the writers and makata.
He became a member of the youth who Makabayan in the seventy's, became liderestudyante act, in the ranks of the workers, and the house the picket line up magmartial law.

Presented of Ka Luis the importance of Origin of the Family in kasalukyang time.
According to the Origin: "And other more who belong to the so-called Marxistang panitikan is offering a new perspective about kaunlarang society.

Sinasaad that our current status is not eternal - that the world is not a "Valley of tears" that our fate until the cemetery as a result of the "" first wrongdoing.
In the advancement of the history, dugtong, he can reach the free, peaceful and prosperous life where there is no taking advantage of the people for the people and will be kalakarang will be free "improvement of all as the basis of the free progress" of each other.
According to Ka Luis, it is important the Origin to see the real characteristic of the state.
He explains: "In Origin, they are saying that the state, sumibol in society but tuluytuloy separate.
Nasusuong accepting that the society in a quarrel, to rival the side or kind, and not to smashed the society in their arguments, there needs to be a papagitnang power - the state.
And the state, and since the beginning, became makiling in a kind - in a ariarian.
The furniture in taking advantage and bullying of the kind of no ariarian - the sanlaksang masses of farmers and "workers.
Even though it is like this, the attitude of Origin that sometimes kumikiling the state of people, which can be seen in the posture of the Duterte government.
According to Ka Luis: "Mentioned by Engels, Solon that he pulled out the pananda and pagkakasangla of the land and tinubos the Griyegong ipinambayad-debt and made the slaves" in another town.
However, she also says of Ka Luis that he did not know if Duterte will up to where his proposal.
A deep pagkakatanim of the reaksiyunaryo pamana in the country that the colonists could be expelled.
The Pumapalakpak reaksiyunaryo, he said, to solve the crime and traffic because they also benefited from here.

"But we will know the ENDO or kontraktuwalisasyon what they will be these.
Also add the Land reform and anti-mining.

't whatever rituals, Duterte needs to our whole support.
The strong support of the people is the only thing he maipantatapat in the strength of the reaksiyunaryong "local and foreign.
Not only the Origin naisalin of Ka Luis.
Some here is that the communist Manifesto of Marx and Engels, Wage, price, Profit and Wage-Labour the Capital of Marx, The German Ideology of Marx and Engels, Formen or pre-Capitalist Economic Formations of Marx, some chapter of the Anti-Duhring of Engels, and The Woman Question of Lenin.

Naisalin he is also the other more like the political Economy of John Eaton, Feudal Society Vol.1 of Marc Bloch, What Happened in history of Gordon Childe, Studies in the Development of Capitalism by Maurice Dobb, and free translation of Wealth of Nations by Adam Smith.

Now, he isinasalin the Condition of the working Class in England of Engels.
Amazing, but the transfer, your personal interests, and last 1976 he started.
Banggit of Ka Luis, "poverty because I understand the works in nasusulat foreign language.
I have a the diksiyunaryo to masapol my reading, so I isinasalin "in the Filipino language.
Many of the translation of Ka Luis is hand-writing or makinilyado, and labu-labong piled.
There are also naiwaglit, nginatngat of rats or inanay.

I also do not "because sinapantaha with magkakainteres" to release a work.
But, of course, give all-is still his joy when the naimprenta translations, read and understood, especially the workers.



