Hating sibling: Sipat on the situation of the Special Education in the country

Of Gloiza Rufina Plamenco

"Elder sister, when you go home"?
Shouted over and over again to the question of my younger sister, Yodney when we spoke on the phone this past.
More than a month also passed before we once again able to talk, so as paglalambing, I also several times he doesn't answer back.
Nagsawa, when he returned to the telephone to my mother without asking me.
The whole family was born when Yodney.
In different colors kayumangging my and brother's, he inherited the white and smoother skin of Mother.
In our siblings, he is the only has a deep biloy on both cheeks.
But to all of us, he is the only struggled to grow like an ordinary child.
Three years old when he started it turns out the symptoms: Sometimes'y suddenly was aalburoto without reason, of them cannot speak properly, and not understands the statements of around him.
Later, we learned that he was autistic Yodney - a Special child my brother.
However, kailanma'y I didn't think that he will be a burden to my life.
It is true that he is still frisky every time there is a visitor in the house, but he often nakababad in computers and watching YouTube videos.
Sometimes it, that I would be surprised that he will be the nagliligpit and washing our were dining in.
Kakalabing-eight years of Yodney last Sunday.
In every smile, napupukaw the hope of our family going to experience the of the common people - the study in a school, have friends, and face the sadness and happiness in life.
The first step in the year 1999 when the doctor's advice, study, Yodney in the private school in Manila, which offers Special Education (SPED), to further improve the situation.
So't last four-year-old, he transferred by our parents from Samar tungong Manila.
The SPED being divided in two classes of students: The mentally gifted; and the young people with disabilities like the blind, deaf, silent, and there is a developmental disorder like my sibling, according to Ma'am Mirla Olores, SPED Division Chief of the department of Edukasyon (DepEd).
That's not kadaling to find the school has a low tuition and proper facilities for the Special children in the Philippines.
In fact, more than five million Special children in the country, more than 230,000 only the are able to study the SPED, according to the record of DepEd.
The story of the mother, they were even more clueless with in searching for the school is close to our house.
In the end, entered, Yodney in a private school in Ortigas up until the P60,000 tuition fee every year.
The family could not bear the high tuition, that's why't Yodney was transferred to another school in Mandaluyong.
Did not even singmahal of before, is still in the pocket expenses.
In 2004, when he needed to go home to my brother in Samar.
Second tested in the five years of schooling of Yodney in a private school, she learned to mention his name, read, write, to handle the spoon't fork, and later, formed by the simple sentences.
In 2010, we put him in a public SPED center in Samar of a few months.
Once I secured to Yodney, I thought the condition of the other children who were not able to study in the better school.
What are the attention to each other?
For example, who was just Yodney of some of his teacher suddenly went out of the classroom to play.
My brother is smart, right nakakasagot when asked.
There is no matrikulang 381 pay in public SPED centers in the entire country, but not maikukubli, the lack of them to the teachers who tututok and even equipment.
Not all of the SPED center in the country, there are things for every type of disability, "said Olores.
Any mapahusay wanted the SPED Division of their service, they are still suffering due to the perenyal problems that is not being addressed by the government.
According to Olares itinaaas of the government, although the budget of the SPED this year in P180 billion from P115 billion in 2012, he remains lacking to mapaayos every public SPED centers in the whole country or buy the important things like Braille writer for the blind.
In the experience, it is better that the facilities in the private schools that also have enough teachers - it seems like only those with money will be the only chance to decrease the study of the "espeyal" that loved ones.
Last choice aside from a small budget and the lack of teachers and professionals, there is also the issue of the right that pagtututok in the Special children.
There is a need for a seriously training teachers about the proper teaching and dealing with others't other cases of the Special children, added UP Educ SPED department Head Doctor Edilberto Dizon.
"[One of the urged] for me to study the SPED is because Special child my child... most of us are studying because of our loved ones in life," said Kristina "*, a doctoral student of SPED in UP College of Education (UP Educ).
But according to Prof. Myra Tantengco of Educ ninanais, still the most work in other countries where there is a big salary.
From 2005 until 2010, there are 2,768 Filipino teacher flying to the United States, where the in-demand of the SPED teachers, according to the National Statistics Coordination Board.
Olores added, be counted among the fingers the therapists of the Special children who are working for the public SPED centers in the whole country.
Compared to P130,000 per month salary of teachers in the US, the small sweldong received by the teacher in the country in more or less P18,000.
"But we are urging the our students to serve in the Special children here in the country," said "Tantengco.
Meanwhile, plan to lay out of the SPED department of UP Educ in the administration of UP is having a edukasyong "inclusive" for special students in the university.
"We believe that it is more mapapagyaman the study of the Special children in UP [] if they are included in the regular scholar of the people," said "Dizon.
The preparation and it will be a big rekurso will be spent for this, "said Dizon, but if you would pay attention to the UP and the government, this is an action that will open up the education in the university for all.
As a university in the country, to serve as a good example of this is the inisyatibang UP if that will be implemented that can be followed and't imitate the other institutions for education.
But it leads to failure is any desire to improve the SPED in the country if remains a tragic was the pangkabuuang condition of the system for education.
To continue and sistematikong pagpapabaya of the government to the education sector, it cannot be affected even the SPED isinasandig often at the private school.
If you think about it, just a small gift to the birthday of my brother is the research and wrote the articles about his condition.
Until now, we are still hoping that the coming days will be experienced by Yodney the live a normal, and study at a cheap but quality school, where she can get to know the like and she didn't like that with he learns and tutuklas in the mystery of life.



