
Ali supported by the taxpayers in Manynila

Posted by: Almar Danguilan on March 1, 2016 in opinions

Why is not surprising if the support of investors and taxpayers to Kosehal Ali Aienza in Manila, for the 2016 elections.
How Ali because the only first stood firm and protested against the plan of the current administration or of the city government of Manila to increase by 300 percent the tax in Manila.
The pagtututol of Ali, in the City Council supported by some Councilors like of Councilor Rod Lacsamana, and Josie Siscar.
Not only of Ali showed to protest against the planned harassment of the city government in the invest and the people of the city but, faced him, Manila Mayor Joseph "Erap" Estrada.
He asked the father of the city to gain pity the "child" (invest and people) - not to continue the planned to make people - the planned imposition of a severe high tax on the businessman in Manila.
Suggestion of Ali Erap, instead of to increase the tax will go after the did not pay and a cheater in paying taxes and remove the tax exemptions.
Because of Ali did not fight the plan to 300 percent tax increase.
Instead, has done by the city government of 150 percent.
But, the government is still nagpaplano the kakulangang 150 percent will be imposed after the election.
Oh paktay.
That is why you are here in Manila, even wais'y you in voting who iuupo you.
Do not your more punitive to you.
Whatever it is, even if half of the 300 percent is the imposed - it can be said that the opposition against the success of Ali did.
It is also a big thing that's why the kabawasan of 150 percent of 300 percent increase.
Oh gosh, if not protested against it in case of Ali and some colleagues formed the Council, the 300 percent the iho and girl.
It's a good thing that there is the likes of Ali, for the people of Manila.
For now, according to the businessman, they still have a hard time because there are situations that they feel that is not humane and fair the imposition of the tax in Manila.
It is because of the height of tax from your small, particularly the only livelihood.
Like a small barbershop, of 20,000 pesos (tax), and even the small sari-sari store was not spared.
, the businessman said in Manila, it is not fair and just the actions of the officials of the Manila because they are small and honest to pay the tax, but the increase of napakaling kinargahan giant company of communication is inilibre in tax.
Inilibre in tax, maybe it will be - Paging investigation by the BIR Commissioner Kim Henares.
Giant Communication companies, inilibre in tax?
Is it possible that?
Thankful because even if the taxpayers alone have Ali Atienza and managed to tumindig in the City Council to stop this unjust tax increase.
They were hoping that when Ali, won as vice mayor of Manila is maitutuwid the wrong rules and regulations of pagkolekta taxes.
The taxpayers believe that only Ali only in a solution will stop smakagagawa lowering the pay of those in Manila.
The "they should go after, the Bigtime tax evaders and not the religiously" to pay the right tax and follow "properly in the government.
As told by one of the businessman, does not want to reveal his name.
We just "we supported Ali, because we believe that only he is the only makapagsisimula of the revival of the new Manila" statement of nagkakaisang businessmen in the city.



