The effective "Filipino time"?

By Tomas U Santos - January 30, 2014

When it comes to teknikal meaning of time, only one should follow the standard.
But if you're in the Filipino culture, the scheduled time may be later or not.
What is the should be followed?
On the first day of January, formally declared by the Department of Science and Technology-Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical, the Astronomical Services Administation (PAG-ASA) the Philippine Standard time (PhST magtatakda) that a standard of the time in the whole country.
To the order to change the tradition and nakaukit when nosyon that "Filipino time," a mind that an hour of those tinakdang activities or work.
According to Mario Raymundo, the engineer of Astronomical Observation the time Service Unit of PAG-ASA, one of the primary goal PhST, in order to avoid the negative konotasyon of Filipino time from being the end of time, wrong discipline, and pagsasawalang-take care of our fellow.
"Is hoped that the things will cause many will go to waste time," said "Raymundo.
According to Augusto De Viana, chairman of the Department of history of the university, there is a good cause the terms of appointing one pamantayang hours in the country.
"Makakatipid in time and will be more productive the [Filipinos] in holding an activities and other meeting because they know when it will start" and will be finished.
Aside from this, it is time to change the negative konseptong makasabay this to the Philippines in the neighboring country ulad.
He said, the income is also the propesyonalismo of Filipinos, not only in the field of business or service to the country but also the real humane of each other.
Meaning of the Filipino time to Jose Rizal also mentioned that her tanyag novels pinamagatang "Noli Me Tangere and El Filibusterismo are" "" giving importance of Spaniards to their position through direct pagpapahuli in the occasion just like the governor general and other personnel in nobela of Rizal.
However, De Viana said that the negative konotasyon of Filipino time is never not considered to be part of the culture of the country.
According to him, the concept of the Filipino kolonisasyon during the time of the Spaniards in the country.
From their frequent holding an the piging and gathering, it was noticed by the Filipinos coming end if the the most important people in society conquerors.
Because of this, there was a nosyon in the minds of the Filipinos, who was the last come the most important thing.
When he left the Spaniards in the country, the Filipinos their practices that magpahuli to inform the majority their importance.
Since then, even though if nagpapahuli wakes up early, are also known and those who are capable of Filipinos in when it comes to others't other meeting or the piging.
When the country to be colonized by the Americans, they noticed that the end of the Filipinos, which is why they gave a negative meaning that he does not know how to appreciate the time for the Filipinos.
They called "Filipino time," when it is a tradition that use and became part of the Filipino culture magpasahanggang at present.
The ASA as the official timekeeper for several times a proposals the government of the country in order to avoid the negative nosyon in the Filipino culture.
First started the Philippine Standard time (PhST) last June 2, 1977 through the Presidential Decree Number 1149 of former President Ferdinand Marcos saying that the ASA, they will be the official time services agency of the Philippines is responsible in promoting PhST.
After this, the atas be immediately implemented the Constitution Pambansa Blg.
8 last year 1978 who designated PAG-ASA as the official timekeeper of the Philippines.
But although it has been a long implemented the law to strengthen the PhST, it took the 35 years before finally the implementation of a strong and seriously law about this.
This is the Philippine Standard time Act of 2014 signed by President Benigno Aquino III last December of last year.
With this, all of the clock quickens in the country is isi-synchronize in the official hours of PAG-ASA.
The ratification of this is the campaign of PAG-ASA called "Juan time: Filipinos Ako, On-time Ako!" According to National time Consciousness week that started last pinakaunang days of 2014.
This was with the help of the others't other organization, particular the mobile communications business companies like Smart and Globe.
"So this is the start of the 2014, we are hoping that there will be a change in the behavior of the Filipinos when it comes to their importance in the time of their fellow," harvest Raymundo.
In the jurisdiction of the law, that this is all of the national agency of the country - including the State Colleges and Universities is the government-owned the controlled corporations, all of the local government units, all of the station of the television and radio of the government, all of the private station of the television and radio, and all of the private corporation or agency in the country.
Even in Unidersidad, there is no reason for the Tomasino for being late because there are GPS clock in the building based on the atomic clock of PAG-ASA.
According to Raymundo, the amount of used in pagpapasakatuparan of this law is dependent on General Appropriations fund of PAG-ASA.
At present, they were able to install of 7 units in Malacañang and 4 units of PAG-ASA Regional Services Division.
According to him, the total this project will need the celsium clock worth more than 50 million pesos to implement in the whole country.
At present, still wanted to intensify the PAG-ASA the placing of the time display of all of the establishment and the building in Metro Manila, where it is also the container of Network time protocol or what Global Positioning System (GPS) where you might isabay of ordinary citizens is their clock quickens in PhST.
A big steps the implementation of the PhST to avoid the negative konotasyon of Filipino time.
"We are hoping that the beginning of the proper use of PhST.
This is also for the future of the Filipinos.
The time is important because they are supporting the discipline, right relationships, and the most important of all, it will be as a signal to start that we give importance and respect the time of our fellow ", he said.
According to De Viana, not only the government should be the one to lead the repair of "Filipino time," needs to cooperate with the every Filipino in the change of negative konseptong this to be successful in the fulfilment of the Philippine "" Standard time.
"We remove the old concept of Filipino time to always those because it is not good for the country,", he said.
J.V.



