
Thursday, July 17, 2014

The poem as political responsibility

The poem as political responsibility

By Gregorio V. stars Jr.

I do not personally that, because that is what I claimed the political activities.
They just see personal crusade that because the things I'y poem.
But I am not tumutula for myself.
The tulang that is part of the task pagmumulat, activities, the political political tulang.

That their accusations, the accusation or comment, or perhaps is always see me.
The pagtula'y that I personally crusade I only, this is not a political responsibility.

I have a personal yes't poems, pumapaksa in love, but the majority'y political, pumapaksa in society, poverty, struggle, women, revolution, dukha, kind of workers, rotten system, and pagnanasang change.

The appearance is probably the only person, because it is more minarapat pagtula I done in the comments of others't other social issues, including the belief, principle't ideyolohiyang my tinanganan.
That is usually the poem'y anyong fitting and size, for others'y it is difficult to do, that's why they just settle with free taludturan (verso free in Spanish language or free verse in English language).

The appearance is probably the personal because that was my choice of use.
But the content is political because I want to share the comments't comment on my kalakarang society, as well as the corresponding principle't diwang I want to hug also aspires for change.

'y form and did not see the content.
But if they are just reading materials that, it is not the form the will resonate in their spirit but what is stated in the poem.
Compared to a bread that the pagkabalot mananamnam, this is only if it rains or more acrid'y eaten.
Like tulang should not just look at the form but also namnamin the depths of this, to malasahan if over-satiated or the good pagkakatimpla of the poem.

The poem'y pagmumulat.
The call to change to cure the poverty of the majority of people, but it is difficult to perform a responsibility.
There is a need to the hard work and intelligence to maipamulat the masses the need for unity to change the system of the society, to change the things in the production, to change the relationship of the people without were taking advantage and no one was.

I will continue to pagtula in anyong fitting't naipagpapatuloy size because I grew up with when the appearance of Balagtas and Batute, the makatang for the masses just and batikan in playing with words.
Balagtas, that is a long kumatha tulang Florante and Laura, and Batute kumatha, that of a long tulang in the East.
Two kathang all political and nakapagmumulat in any readers in their duty to the public.

I can dream of tulang like made up of Balagtas and Batute, a tulang pumapaksa long, but also in the history and struggle of the kind of workers.
I think, I have done it and published, I can die happy.



