
Soldiers of the 31st IB, who were killed in the operation of the NPA pagdisarma

Samuel Guerrero NPA Sorsogon Provincial Operations Command (Celso Minguez Command) November 16, 2014

A soldier of the 31st Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army were killed when they fought in a Tim of the New People's Army who stopped him and another colleague to disarmahan in Barangay San Antonio, Barcelona, Sorsogon at around 8: 00 in the morning.

The two soldiers were included in the so-called Peace and Development Team (PDT) nakahimpil in the center of the said barangay since last October 22.
And pinatigil blocked by the NPA the passenger tricycle carrying two soldiers to kumpiskahin their maiiksing gun.
He jumped from the vehicle and pulled out a gun, a soldier was so naobliga Pulang warriors that the shooting and killed him.
Confiscated by the NPA his pistolang .45 caliber.

Is one of the soldiers are nagsumiksik of civilians in connivance with his tricycle.
Not nakipaggitgitan the operatives of the NPA to avoid the possible even damage to the civilians and hinyaan that they umabante the tricycle.

Along with this, the NPA hinaras the PDT that nakahimpil in the barrio.

The move of the NPA, a response to the complaint of taumbaryo against the abusive soldiers.
Complained of the people have three weeks occupying the military in the barangay hall, daycare center and health center, not only in San Antonio, but as well as the barrio of Togawe, Benguet, Villareal and side in the town of Gubat, Sorsogon.
Since the humimpil PDT in the said barrios, many of the residents in the barrio threatened and hurt by the soldiers and forcefully pinaaaming members or supporters of the NPA.
Nothing can be done even if the officials of the barangay because even they were threatened by the military.

Supported by the rebolusyonaryong movement the request of the citizens to remove the PDT of the Philippine Army in okupadong barrios.
Continue the action that will be conducted by the NPA to remove them from the said area.



