The attack in the Senate

The "gate-crashing" of Navotas Representative Toby Tiangco, United Nationalist Alliance (UNA interim President) and Atty.
JV Bautista, UNA interim Secretary General, while in the midst of the Blue Ribbon "sub-committee" hearing of the Senate, will bring napakasamang effect.
First, because the one to do it, Rep. Tiangco, is also a lawmaker.
Love-say, parekoy, he knows that even in the policy of the hearing of the Congress is not ever this kind of work.
But because the iniuulat that are desperate ipagsanggalang kayamanang "not explain Vice-President.
Jojo Binay, have chosen by Tiangco to destroy the issue etiketa or good manners.
Maipagtanggol was just Nognog!
King-mother!
Most of all, he repeatedly, parekoy, iniimbitahan Binay in the said hearing to explain his side.
But have chosen their camp that he is not padaluhin even if he were invited and the allied is not in the Senate were invited their pinalusob!
As if the message, they also do'yo binababoy, only the identity of our boss because of his "piggery" in Batangas, then, we have not "mess up your hearing!
Piggery the fight now!
It's just that there is no Senator Drilon!
Question to VP Binay: Why you really do not want to attend the investigation in the Senate?
What you fear "truth" that happened in your face if you will attend?
Suggestions Binay: Why not just that you will show up in the Senate to carry about those who are carrying of Representative Tiangco?
Plea to Nognog: I just hope that, if you really just do not want to attend the Senate, do not disrespect or ipababoy of your followers.
So that it would not be too much of the people that you are really in the possible appeared larger truth while the demolition, I mean,, investigation of the Senate.
So if you did not save your face, to save the dignity of your followers, like Tiangco.
In the desire to save you, it will continue to etikitang nagmumukha tolonges being implemented in the hearing of the Congress!
Many Mister Binay will be affected by because of the possible you something foolish there!
I just hope that, do not implicate them in your destruction!



