
Toy guns and legal against China

In the last news, not just Surveillance ships and pangisdang ship of China was seen in Scarborough or Scarborough Shoal.
There is one of the huge gunboat China.
Station war ships the ship.
And there is a direct our BRP Gregorio del Pilar that there are also kanyon.
There is a meaning to this.
Both serious about the two countries in their claim that the said the island.
The giant China was not able to the Philippines if this giniyera of China because of this.
And more importantly do not the Philippines if this is the maunang launching a war.
Because, on the other hand, is that he did not even us.
There is a helikopter but this might not makababalik on the verge of gasoline is still going on in the area.
Most of the coffin were pinulot, because they are just from junk shop from Vietnam all.
He Navy, we are one by one of the ship.
And the most painful, a sickness that seems to be the ran out of fuel, diesel or bunker nababalaho in the sea.
The coast guard, we are napakaliliit pampatrulya the boat.
Might be first more sunk in a little bad weather than the boat role to let them attend washbasin or pond.
On the other hand, China has the airplane, boat and other weapons kasinlalakas of weapons of the Americans and Russian.
With the number of their soldiers, they are just pee, then, maybe malulunod the Navy and coast guard.
We really have no binatbat, Bro.
Until we are just toy guns.
Where. Uncle Sam?
The only hope, the help of Uncle Sam, of the Americans.
They say to us the ship BRP Gregorio del Pilar also dug up from the junk shop.
They are also selling to us by the armalayt.
They are also selling to us by the from junk shop to the helikopter.
When there was a flying and we still the fighter plane drifted, also came to them.
Tora-tora the call of the airplane.
But the some of the Americans, the peace for us to help the Philippines and the United States if there is a war has one't one.
That's why, the Philippines of the soldiers in Korea, in Vietnam and in Iraq.
Deaf and silent Ngayon is looming the fight of China and the Philippines in the Scarborough Shoal.
In spite of this, nakabibingi the peace of the Americans.
Maybe, they are deaf and blind to patutsadahan of China and the Philippines, which is why they do not have a reaction.
But for sure, it might be, you can count on the Philippines to help in times of war.
That's not cent Americans were maipadadala here with us for help against the Chinese.
Now, nakahahalata that you, the Bro?
There is a exercise, now, the recently concluded Balikatan exercise.
But the target only those might not to the same with what he is saying we now.
The child of the tofu, what's that?
Should be no war Kahit when, we do not want the war.
All should be daraanin in diplomacy and good and peaceful conversation.
Even if we have a strong force military pupuwedeng ipantapat in China.
Because if there is a war, consumed the funds for the kagalingan of the citizens, magugulo our life and there will be a lot of killings.
It will not be a normal life if we are all just funeral our to do and we also mababalitaan this is also what is happening in China.
Be settled in the United Nations because we do not want war broke out in the Philippines especially't napakalapit the Scarborough Shoal in us and we want to the peaceful and placate the relationship in other countries, moving to the government of President Noynoy Aquino to the filing of the appropriate case in the United Nations.
Under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea or UNCLOS, we have the right to the Scarborough Shoal to inherit it.
This'y because of this in the jurisdiction of the 200 mile exclusive economic zone, according to the UNCLOS.
The complaint filed by the Philippines against China to madesisyunan of international court the case.
There is a problem.
What if he does not want to cooperate in China.
It is acceptable to decide the appropriate court of the UN in favor in the Philippines?
Because it is difficult to really decide on the court without nagpapasakop the enemy.
In the criminal case, and only if the court decides pupuwedeng both showed that the opposing sides.
There is no problem if the idinemanda naa-archive, which is why the case.
The government to show an example is the case will be over and both magpasakop in the Philippines and China and won the first in the case.
How do the Philippines the control and properties in the island after?
Is that we did not have the yard force to the island completely and up the flag of the Philippines.
Because if not, it will continue, the Bro, the arrival of the causes one who owns in the area and may not that China is the next kalaban. oOo any complaint or comment, you may call or send-tex in 09214303333.



