
Kontraktuwalisasyon, the employees of the government by Darius Galang

Said the workers in the government, there are many Duterte has done in the first 100 days, especially in the peace talks.
But for the workers, there is still no allegedly achieving promise.

Included in the platform of President Duterte during his campaign before the end of the praktika of the end of contract or ENDO, or kontraktuwalisasyon, and there are still many problems being faced by the Filipino workers.
But after 100 days of his administration, it is still not addressed the request of the workers.
Still waiting for the employees of the government to promise to change until now.

"100 in the past few days, we still do not have seen any difference in the previous administration and the Duterte administration," Santiago said Dasmarinas, first vice-president of Confederation for Unity, Recognition the Advancement of government employees.

"Although he uttered the words, still hasn't been achieved (the promises he).
The call nami'y he still call each other in the past administration to implement the national minimum Wage in the public and private sector.
We also call to stop the kontraktuwalisasyon, and others't other forms of kontraktuwal worker is done with regular, "harvest Dasmarinas.

But the attack of the workers.
This is just October 11, released a memorandum to the Department of Agriculture that stating lessening of 50 percent of Job order employees effective on October 1.

"It is clear that it is still tanggalan," harvest Dasmarinas.
He explained, it just shows that there is still no assurance to work even in the ranks of the government employees.

Nothing tanggalan in some agency of the government, and objected this of course of Courage.
Darius Galang Dagdag by Manuel Baclagon, chairman of the Social Workers employees Association of the Philippines-Department of Social Welfare and Development, do not agree the memorandum in order by Duterte to stop the kontraktuwalisasyon and pagreregularisa of the kontraktuwal.

In their data, Baclagon said that one of the three members of the government is nakakategorisa as kasuwal, kontraktuwal, or Job order or contract of service worker.
He said, this bumibilang in more than half a million workers.

There are many "when they made the Duterte administration, especially in the peace talks," said "Baclagon.
But we still "attention of the employees of the government that there is still no happening in our Collective Negotiating" Agreement in the department.
He added that there are plans for sure "-engineering "that magrersulta of additional lack of work.
Mentioned by Baclagon that there is a plan to "rightsize the bureaucracy" that according to Budget Sec.
Benjamin Diokno, mangangahulugn of retrenchment of the employees of the government.

October 19, went to the tarangkahan of Batasan Pambansa the employees of the government, including the workers of the DSWD, of the National Food Authority, the MMDA, and other branches of the government, even the staff of the science and technology.

Continue to their call to the meaningful additional wages, the assurance of the work, and abstain from kontraktuwalisasyon, not only in their ranks, but also to the private sector.



