Council in Manila is not in P14-billion budget?

Posted by: Jerry Yap on January 24, 2017 in opinions

There is a saying the cunning and corrupt leader, to easily mapamunuan a group need the divide the rule tactics.
But hopefully, this is not the reason of the case filed by Manila Vice Mayor Maria Shiela "Honey" Lacuna-Pangan against the group of majority floor leader Councilor Casimiro Sison with the 17 councilor of Manila.
File a petition, VM Honey to stop the implementation of the P14-billion city budget for 2017 after binawasan discovered that the budget of his office.

But not favored by Judge Armando Yanga of Manila Regional Trial Court Branch 173 the petition for the temporary restraining order (TRO) because of the lack of merit.

According to Lacuna there "unauthorized moves" some people who are doing the "", particularly the Committee on appropriations.
The budget of the other departments including the Office of the Vice Mayor, City Administrator's Office and the council, is not naisalang in the hearing, according to the vice mayor.

That is why he was shocked when he saw his office "tinabasan" of P360 million which is meant for Job orders, contractual employees, office supplies and donations.
Well, that's why it was natapyasan pumiyok "his budget?
It is a big mess "that!
According to the old people, do not the kitchen of the kitchen, if you don't want to there.
One more thing, isn't it't, VM Lacuna-Pangan the presiding officer of the Council?!
What is the reason and it was sinuwag VM Honey of his konsuhol "or" councilor?!
Is it really when it comes to the issue of cash "but there is a nagkakabati and there is a fight?
It looks like us when nakaaamoy malansa and early politics formed the Council of Manila.
Pension will go to the tinapyas that the budget of VM Honey?
In the majority floor leader?!
Who could be ordered to tapyasan?

Anyway, I hope that the Konseho realize that while they are not, there are people or groups that are happy.
What is the use of a nagkakagulong Konseho?
Nothing.
"That might become the wick of defeat for the next election because they do not have any except magbangayan in the treasury of the Manila than service to the people.
Only request formed the Council of Manila, you wouldn't be uto-uto!



