
100,000 marched in laborer's work

Filipino by Weekly Staff May 3, 2012

Up to 100,000 workers, together with the other't other sectors of society, the marched in the entire archipelago to commemorate the international's work.

The strategy of their memory: Protest.

Pinuruhan of protestang headed to the entire country of Kilusang May Uno (KMU), Pres.
Benigno Aquino III, who according to a puppy of imperyalismong'y "US and capitalists have, and haciendero".
The criticism of the workers in them'y failure of adminsitrasyong Aquino to give a little relief to the people in the middle of the worsening hunger and poverty.

In Manila, it is estimated that up to 30,000 the marched towards Plaza, Miranda, Quiapo and foothills of Mendiola Bridge in Manila.
They did the intensity of the heat and the downpour of rain.

Elmer said "Ka Bong" Labog, chairman of the KMU, that he got angrier the workers in the statement of Aquino was involved in the "" leader-workers who met with the president in the morning of May 1.

"Kapariwaraan of workers took the message of (Aquino)," harvest Labog.
It was said by the leader-worker proof that the statement of Aquino defending the interest of the big corporation even the company of oil.

Elmer "Ka Bong" Labog, chairman of the Kilusang May Uno.
(KR Guda) "there are still binola gave the workers," of Labog said.

More than a decade that the proposed P125 across-the-board Wage increase of KMU, but in spite of the intensifying crisis and increase of goods, he continues to ibinabasura of the Congress and Malacanang.

Aquino also directly denied the said proposal for a meaningful salary increase.
This is not "DOLE-is coming from the pocket of Aquino or the capitalists have but the result of the hard work and sacrifices of the workers in our country.
Not to beg for the workers, said "Bayan Muna Rep. Teddy Casino.

Casino also said that it is not bad if you will be given the P1.4 trilyon, that the estimation of the President to lessen the economy, that additional wages.
Deserving to be just trying to get it.

"Did not spend of the workers in other countries the money.

Papalakasin even the economy because this will be used for daily expenses of the family of the workers and the education of their children, "said" Casino.

Explained by former Bayan Muna Rep. Satur Ocampo that has been almost left behind by the government's request for additional wages.

"" Did not leave the (Aquino) government in the pattern of the response of the government (the call to the increase in salary) while it is not acceptable - the legislated Wage increase.
They are invoke the regional Wage boards should magpapapasya, but historically over decades, always lacking "those given to increase," Ocampo explained.

Also said by Ocampo, there is a year that the law should be given an extension of additional wages.
So even if every year have additional wages, if small, the always becomes, it is not enough for the workers.

Also not pleased by the Confederation for Unity, Recognition the Advancement of government employees (Courage) in the assurance that the President will be given to the last tranche of Salary Standardization Law 3 (SSL3).
According to the Courage, too meager of its effect on the 1.4 million employees of the government to keep quiet in the middle of the high cost of living.

"Scant (the) P713 added that every month in minimum wages.
If isasaalang of the inflation, he could not punuan a lost worth of our wages, "said" Ferdinand Gaite, national president of the Courage.

According to Gaite, before the proposed additional wages for employees. "" That is the last installment that started in 2009, "harvest Gaite.

Ipinanawagan of of the government employees in the additional 6,000 pesos in monthly minimum wages.

When the EVAT, criticisms of the suffering of the marched calls for the denial in the expanded Value-Added Tax (EVAT), especially in the products they'y oil to the suffering of the people.

Yes, "'t now'y slowly the price of oil in the market, but what if in the following days, and he is again because the industry remains deregulated and free nakakapagtakda of the price of oil the kartel." Harvest Joms Salvador, second general secretary of Gabriela.

Aside from the request for additional wages for workers, Salvador said that a scythe of kaalwanan for nakakarami the departure of EVAT in oil products may mapababa because this is the price of goods.

Meanwhile, an estimated 5,000 poor city attacked the home of President Aquino in Times Street before he went to the Mendiola.
Their condemned the alleged'y left't right demolition in the community of the indigent.

"Participating the huge number of the indigent now because of that there is no puknat demolisyong implemented by Aquino.
Pinapalala the lack of work and down in poverty of the indigent, "said Gloria Arellano, general secretary of the Kalipunan ng Damayang Mahihirap (KADAMAY).

The blame, Kadamay, the project in a private-public partnership pagdemolis in the community of the indigent, like what happened in Silverio Compound in Paranaque last April 21.

Aside from the call for a meaningful additional wages, they also iprinotesta the alleged'y continue to pangangayupapa of the Aquino administration foreigner in the government, especially in the US.
A kontingent of KMU and Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (BAYAN) protested in front of the embassy of the US before leaving the Plaza Miranda at noon on May 1.

Their iprinotesta the discussion in Washington DC between the government of the Philippines and America.

According to the group, it is not fair is the result of the agreement because of the Aquino administration that palawigin allowed the tratado as well as the widespread launch of the ehersisyong military troops and maintaining Americans in the country.

Together with the drew and protest of the workers, a mass was inialay of the bishops and Catholic priest for workers, "the annual celebration of Independence Manggagawa on the first day of May is a good opportunity to maipahayag of the church his gratitude for the workers, her concern for their welfare and his turong is about making to maitaguyod the right, just and humane policy in the world of work.
This year, I want to share some important food of the church, "part of the released pastoral letter of Archbishop Antonio Tagle, DD.

Tagle also said that the person is more important than the capital and pipe.
"The people or the workers is the most important part of a business or production.

The improvement of the material or financial part of the production is important but also never should be a reason to take advantage of the workers.
In the wrong taking care of the capital and income, damaged the integrity of the workers, as well as their families and the entire community, ", he said.

The call of Tagle, it should be given priority and respect every person.

It was said that the KMU to serve as inspiration of workers took the message of the bishop in their struggle.

"At the time that the attitude of () and the Aquino administration capitalists have the lack of concern for the workers, aang statement of Archbishop Tagle is like fresh air for us," said "Lito Ustarez, vice chairman of the KMU.



