Boobsie, colorful life!
"If her husband, but I was womanizing me, I am also!" - Boobsie Wonderland By Jojo Cabinet June 23, 2016 Pinili we interbyuhin, Boobsie Wonderland because of our feeling that his life will be colorful.
TRUE enough, is full of the experience that the lessons kapupulutan Life story. of Boobsie 14-Years Old when to go and work in Japan as cultural dancer because he pineke the age to give a good life for his family.
Without the knowledge of many, became a contestant, Boobsie aka Mary Jane Arrabis in Feeling Sexy "of Eat Bulaga last 2001.
He won that Miss gift and the third runner up.
"Know of my brother Jose (Manalo) and Allan K. contestant to me before the Eat Bulaga.
I have not yet comedienne, I was still Japayuki because before I was Japan.
I am a big bulas and good to dance.
It's a shame ", I did not find" the picture on my will make it a contest, the "regret the statement of Boobsie a year that banned in Eat Bulaga because of his joining the will make it a contest of ABS-CBN.
I have a contract "One Year in Eat Bulaga but" now because of the will make it a contest of ABS-CBN, join us, it is prohibited "now.
I won "I Wanna Be, will make it a contest of Ai Ai delas Alas, I joined the woman Po Ako, will make it a contest of Tuesday Vargas, then show gag.
I always win, it was heard of Eat Bulaga, ban me Eat Bulaga, "harvest Boobsie.
Got Boobsie last March 2016 but she asked to not talk about the "" partner that he is a big contribution to change his life.
The experience of Boobsie luxuriously lives but lost all of the hard work in Japan because he got addicted to gambling.
Boobsie was buried in debt because of pusoy and not in going to the casino.
He is thankful to God and in showbiz because he had been all of the debt since the his television guesting and show.
The kapilyahan of Boobsie when he told a story about her lovelife and to the Japanese that he was then.
Whatever "!
I was clever... delicious have dyowa in the Japanese because it is not the issue of them the virginity.
Like, if they are in'yo sex, it is still because they pampadulas, wasabi! "The serious story of Boobsie followed the crispy that laughter.

; Seriously speaking, experience of Boobsie in a boys and lasted for labingtatlong year the conference but they were given a child.
"Because the thought of my wife, classes, groin only.
Hahahahaha!
There are many times "(who almost magbuntis) but was not.
"Wedding to us, we naghiwalay because he babaero, there is a vices.
We still Nagkakita now.
Painful for him (artist that I am).
Like a crazy again, they are courting me.
"I said, we separated.
It is too deeply "those that we have shared together with our partner.
Why are you still thinking like that?
"The when I left him.
The news, womanizing, I went home from Dubai, I was able to confirm, there is a woman so I fired, was womanizing "joking, but I also have the truth that admission of Boobsie.



