
Pamarisan rebolusyonaryong the lives of the Tiamzon!
The Pagtagumpayan demokratikong rebolusyong!

Zabala also Gypsy Lucille Brigade

National Capital Region youth Makabayan

March 28, 2014

Emphatically kinukundena by the young Makabayan-Brigadang Lucille Zabala also Gypsy's arrest and pagkulong of reaksyunaryong government of the US-Aquino in the leader of the Partido insist of the Philippines, namely Benito Tiamzon and Wilma Austria and of their members.
There is no pagtatanggi in openly pambabalasubas rekasyunaryong and desperation of the government to weaken and eliminate the rebolusyonaryong movement in the arrest of the two leaders communists.

Dinaloy in the peace talks, the estadong this himself nagsasara of the door to discussed the reasonable and long-lasting peace in the country.
Turning our backs on anyone the root of why there are armed pakikibakang happening and they are the process.
Instead of prioritize the Comprehensive Agreement on Socio Economic Reforms that are preparing the all demokratikong request of people like the real reform agraryo and national industriyalisasyon, put the pagpapababa of weapons or kapitulasyon of digmang town, catch and kinukulong the konsultant of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines.

Tumatandang backwards reaksyunaryong government of the US-Aquino in his aasta collector of the susing leader in rebolusyonaryong movement in the desire to idemoralisa and pilayin our ranks.
He pinagkatandaan and learned a lot in the past the government that he could have been planning and the kadulu-duluha'y was swallowed by their failure.
A proof of this is the rightfulness of strong statement of Ka Wilma Austria while I'm greeting "handcuffs that the 45th anniversary of the New Hukbong Bayan.
Continuously increasing.
He couldn't be beaten by the AFP "!

Reaksyunaryong introduced by the government of the US-Aquino in the Filipino youth the life of a simple lifestyle and thorough for the interest of the people.
More nagkahugis and nagkamukha the ehemplong should be emulated by the youth in the likeness of the couple Tiamzon.
Both the intelektwal from the university of the Philippines-Diliman the Tiamzon.
They both product of youth Alliance first nagpabugso in a new type of the national demokratikong movement until finally umanib in New Hukbong Bayan and the entire time inalay their youth, intelligence and strength for pagtatagumpay of rebolusyong end of taking advantage of the people for the people.
Even if their relationship as a couple to get married, they completed and not to pagsilbihin ipinagkait and kagalingan this in the interest of the people.

In the trust of the people, and they are naiabante rebolusyonaryong movement in its status is now - strong nakaugat the masses, matayog challenges and continue to yumayabong because succeed.
They Pinanday pagkabihasa in Marxismo-Leninismo-Maoismo and the paglalapat in praktika and malakolonyal and malapyudal in kaayusang is so good nadidireksyunan of the Partido insist all the members of the Philippines and members of this in the advancement of the reasonable revolution.

Contrary to what is expected of the state that will be'y mapapahina or the digmang town because of the imprisonment of the couple, sinabuyan naglalagablab rebolusyonaryong that this is the spirit of youth and the people.
More than this strengthened the katumpakan of principle't stand to carry the youth Makabayan.

Huge responsibilities the work of our shoulders, especially if he watched't our reach in the upcoming time to lead the digmang town in estratehikong pagkapatas.
Tomorrow the balangay by the young Makabayan in papalaking number of those who want to followed the footsteps of the Tiamzon towards the areas that are ready to accept the youth rebolusyonaryo.

Very proud of the young Alliance have members who like the couple Tiamzon.
There is no pagtatangging we can pagtagumpayan the demokratikong rebolusyong town until a komunistang society if this rebolusyonaryong life and kasikhayan the pamamarisan of all members and will be members of the youth who Makabayan.
Our iwagayway the bandilang red and Sumulong in the path of the Filipino magwawaksi in all of taking advantage of inaaping kind!

Free the couple Tiamzon!
Youth, serve the nation!
Join the New Hukbong Bayan!



