Condolences to the Pamilya and the Kasama of Ka Arman Albarillo and 10 president martyr

As a leader of the national demokratikong Pampulitikang Konsultant ranks of the Philippines (NDFP), I nagpapaabot taospusong condolences to the families and all the people in the southern Katagalugan and the entire country of Ka Arman Albarillo and ten more martyr who killed the reaksyonaryong hukbo in San Narciso, Quezon on June 30.

Red salute in eleven a companion offered their lives in sambayanang Pilpino and under democratic revolution of the town towards maningning sosyalistang that the next day.
The highest honor to serve the country, participating in the revolution and magbuwis of his own life if needed in the process of the struggle.

Pinakasagrado the blood of the rebolusyonaryong martyr and a hero.
Pinatataba of their blood the territory of the revolution.
The two neighboring the decision of the rebolusyonaryo and the people who fought and gapiin the enemy.
Further enlivened and pinabibilis the flow of rebolusyonaryong inspiration by the ruling party, hukbong town and people.

I am sure that the entire Partido, hukbong town and masses of the highest award at each other in the martyr.
And to determine what the contribution of the martyr in the revolution.
In my part, I have not yet napaabutan of information about each a martyr.
But up to me the information about to Ka Arman Albarillo if that is why I am referring to are now as a representative of a martyr in the struggle.

To my knowledge, Ka Arman Albarillo is the former general secretary of the town-southern Katagalugan and became the delegates on the third Asambleya of International League for People's Struggle in Hong Kong in 2007.
He became active in the national demokratikong struggle was killed after his parents in 2002 by the military in the leadership of Jovito Palparan, under the counter-insurhensyang program of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.

When he was included in the ST 72 where 72 leader activists in Southern Tagalog region the graft made gawang case in 2008, he saw the lack of justice and he decided to be a red warriors.
I am sure that her companions, a martyr to aalipusta in their rights, the extreme taking advantage and bullying which caused the participation in the highest form of rebolusyponaryong struggle.

According to the report, the province of Quezon nagdaranas of severe militarisasyon, eight battalions of the Philippine Army, the Philippine National Police and CAFGU were deployed in 22 in the town of District 1 and 2.
There is no kaparis in the history of the provinces and regions this big deployment of the military in relatibong where it is small.
Surely malaganap the violation of the human person and repression of the people and the pwersang patriotic and progressive.

The mabalasik terrorism of the state will be magtutulak to the public, especially the anakpawis, who will fight for their national sovereignty and demokratikong right and move the revolution for their national sovereignty and panlipunang release.

The cruelty of the enemy will serve as a challenge to the rebolusyonaryo that magpakahusay in fulfillment of the right side, the principle, the parakaran and the strategy and tactics of digmang town under democratic revolution of the town.
So, will be meaningful and productive the effort and sacrifice of our rebolusyonaryong martyr and a hero.

Long live the spirit and objectives of Ka Arman Albarillo and his companions nioyang martyr!

Push through with the national demokratikong rebolutsyon nhg!

Long live the anakpawis and Filipino people!



