
Be careful of the food of the brownies and cakes - PDEA

Very nakababahala now is the warning of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency against are cakes and brownies on the street, particularly outside the public schools, not only in Metro Manila but also in the whole country.
Himself was PDEA Director General Undersecretary Jose Gutierrez, Jr., the warned the public to avoid the buying of the homemade that cake and brownie that items being sold on the street, even in the acceptance of the gift cakes and brownies from unknown people.
Gutierrez admits that the kind of food outside will if you are not sure but what are the things that are the ingredients in it.
The warning is what the PDEA after magpositibo that with marijuana leaves the eaten by 17 employees of the Provincial Hospital of San Marcelino, Zambales.
According to the PDEA, last week, a nurse received the three box of gifts that contains the brownies as a gift to his rather, birthday and the said brownies are going to share together, the 17 that the employees of the said hospital.
After eating, felt the nausea and pain in the body health workers, which is why they were immediately given first aid.
Immediately consults the kinaing brownies and when the result, it was discovered that the positive with inihalong dried marijuana leaves as one of the ingredients in making brownies.
Very alarmed the PDEA, which is why they immediately issued a warning to the public to avoid that kind of events.
According to PDEA-PIO Chief Director Derrick Carreon, whoever makakakain of this kind of food with ingredients of dried marijuana or dressing oil of marijuana will possibly be addicts.
It was said that the marijuana pinakagateway drug, and whoever tastes or one has used to this, it is possible to find a more strong kind of drugs.
Pinakilos Gutierrez that his staff to identify who is responsible for it, and where the factory of the said food.
The warning that it would not be baliwalain PDEA, especially the parents with the students in the pam public schools, wherein the blatant selling of the food outside.



