Frankly: Flick the Americans to Duterte By Ellen Tordesillas August 14, 2016, did not know how the Malacañang pagtakpan the Major, Major failures that the President made about the ambassador of the United States, Philip Goldberg and given help to $33 million.
Presidential Spokesman Ernesto Abella, it is not public the said by President Rodrigo Duterte to "gay" and son of puta, Goldberg and "buang" the Americans.
In front of the soldiers in Camp Lapu-Lapu in Cebu City last August 5, and broadcast live on television and radio, while he is saying that he is fixing the V. Luna Hospital, the hospital of the military, he entered the visit of the US State Secretary John Kerry.
This is what the President said: "That is why I said war'ng, Kerry, together with us by Secretary, Delfin (Lorenzana), we spoke to (the US Secretary of State John) Kerry.
He is okay, because we fought the ambassador he (Philip Goldberg).
"The ambassador that he is gay, P.I. buwisit me there.
Meddling in the election, giving statement.
You're not supposed to do that ".
Until October was still Goldberg here in the Philippines.
He added: "So, that (John) Kerry, war'ng she went to this, we nagkain.

I still left, Delfin (Lorenzana) of $33 million.
Ah, it is fine.

We again to be rude to an arrangement buang it.
Money.
"Money only.
Of course not pleased by the Americans.
If the China last ininsulto of former President Noynoy Aquino, inihambing what they are doing in the Spratlys of Hitler is up to the words to calm, the Americans.
Summoned by the State department the chargé d "affaires or the officials who are ruling in the embassy while the ambassador (go home, the ambassador to the US. Jose Cuisia and there is still no mother-appoint Duterte) Patrick Chuasoto about the Duterte said.
Abella said, he explained the pagkasabi of Chuasoto of Duterte.
Abella said, it is not for the public what the President said about Goldberg and to Kerry.
"IT was addressed to a certain audience is the comments were confined to a certain" audience, he said.

I did not Tina-translate in Tagalog Abella said because I do not really know what it means.
It is up to you to understand.
Issued the US.

Embassy in Manila last Friday in the statement, the $32 million their help is not thought before that Duterte is given as suyo in him.
Before, she was appropriate "that and with" that they continued.
This, pumipitik.

Said of the US Embassy, the turnover of the help that this is tied to the record of "human rights," "due Process" and "" rule of law.
How "", that the words to be irritated Duterte?



