
Effect in the EDCA of ISKAM of global in Subic (3)

The United Sates NADARAMAY Navy with the anomalous contracts of Global Terminals & Development, Inc.
(Global) and the former administration of the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA).
This is the truth: It seems to have lost the authorities the SBMA in three ports of the former ship repair facilities, a US Navy because of the said contract to continue the existing even protested against the Deputy Administrator for Legal Affairs and Seaport department of the SBMA.
Last week, who almost did not makadaong a US Navy supply ship because of the Global.
Because they are not talking to the Americans for the service he needs.
You have your own yet-bidding the US Navy in the service and supply but want to be monopoly all the Global when in Subic, particularly in the former SRF compound, the daong of the ship, according to the contract.
It is not hope for aayunan of the Americans were pagkaganid of Global because aside from against the free business, there is a particular needs this that are not able to give Global and of course, it is only natural for makipagtransaksyon where the more advantage.
The inside of the strong Global because of the much-boasted economic contacts in the Senate like Senator Loren Legarda, residents of Malacañang and even presidential sister Kris Aquino recently visitor Segara Hotel owned by Global, an associate the family Gordon, who was inside the SRF compound.
It looks like the current SBMA Board is not makaaksyon against anomalous contract entered by the earlier because of the fear that they are the makalog in his position.
This is the true: If he really straight path the platform of the government of President Noynoy Aquino, the ipabubusisi "pamimigay" of the SBMA in a private company of a very large asset of the government that puts currently in danger in order to the implementation of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) of the Philippines and the US.
Affected not only the business but also to the security and the territory of the country stolen or occupied by China in the West Philippine Sea so it's just right the immediate action in pambubuwaya of Global.
This is the true!



