Admitted that the relationship with Maine!
I am TAKEN "!" -- Alden By Ruel Mendoza SSeptember 20, 2016 got thrilled the AlDub Nation war'ng songs Alden Richards when the live before she is a single titled PinaSaya Rescue Me on Sunday.
Hango in the new album Alden Say IT again that the said a single that will already in October.
Because of the success of his second album that I Wish "" ginanahan May, the National Bae to release a single so he natanong of his Co-host, Valeen Montenegro if a single "" would he?
Quickly answer of Alden, "Taken".
So it got thrilled the fans with Maine Mendoza a.k.a.
Dub nanny.
In the question as to who wants to be saved by Alden and it is a single that the dedicate Rescue Me?
Answer of Alden, hopefully he nanunuod: "" Now.
Alden was very thankful to her fans to continue supporting so the projects.
"In God's time is always the right time.
Just wait when wait, patience is a key.
"Everything that I do, it is for the people of a love, the WHO have I'm" close with.
Once again to be awarded with Award Alden for outstanding sale of his album that Wish I May.

Up to 8-Times Platinum the Wish I May that is why he is thankful for the unending who supported his album.
"All the awards is a reminder of how well you're doing the how people Are inspired by what you do so it seems like I take IT is going to be a token because people appreciate what I do in All aspects of my career.

Hopefully "while my life that will be brought to the Wish I May album because IT DID so well.

Really too became memorable because I never thought that I will have again album to the eight Times platinum in a lifetime.
It really'm very thankful.
"Thanks to the supporters the followers.
It is my only like they believe in you so much that they give it their support to just make you want to do something memorable "to you.
Alden does not keep cannot his beloved mother, which started the all for him.
"Of course, to the fans, to the supporters the to All WHO have been believing since there's something in the said that I started - to my mom, my family, of course to my management.
I am very thankful "to them.



