
That taktikal successful offensive in Isabela

NPA Cagayan Valley (northeast Luzon)

(Fortunato Camus Command)

05 in December, 2012

Made to come out of the officials of the 5th Infantry Division of the Philippine Army the tambang of the NPA to the troops in Mabbayad, Echague, Isabela last November 17 they experienced in the second defeat in northern Luzon in 2012.
They allegedly pinakamatindi defeat the tambang of the NPA in the pasistang troops in Tinoc, Ifugao last April, where the deceased 11 members of the 85th Infantry Battalion.

Because they did not do to hide, they admitted they have experienced damage in Echague; but along with this'y pagtakpan for the series of the damage caused by the pasistang troops in Isabela last October and November.
What is worse for the 5th ID, the two are still in the primary panagupang units - 51st and 52nd Division Reconnaissance Companies (DRC) - the primary they tasted defeat the damages.

October 17 - past twelve of hating evening, three troops of the 24-people platun of the 51st DRC died and not enjoying his injured in the engkwento between them and a platun under the Benito Tesorio Command of the New Peope's Army in sitios Kidog-kidog, Barangay Santa Isabel in the town of Jones, the encounter lasted for 30 minutes and there is no acquired kaswalti the Pulang warriors.
Is sent out from the 5th ID that there is no kaswalti from both sides.

October 30 - four troops again of 25-people platun of the 51st DRC in the leadership of a 2Lt.
Cabanas died in the are a team under the Reynaldo Pinon Command of the NPA in sitios Old Nursery, Brgy.
Disulap, in the town of San Mariano.

November 8 - two pasistang troops were killed and ten were wounded when from a iskwad of the NPA the 54 people troops of the 51st DRC in the leadership of 2Lt.
Cabanas in sitios Namulan, Brgy.
San Jose, San Mariano.
Pinagtakpan again by the military in the mass media, although't many people have seen the transport of the corpse and wounded pasakay to respond to two helicopter.

Two Tambang in Madaling Independence

But no matter what the experts in Psy-all of the 5th ID, they were not able to hide and was forced to admit that only the two tambang against two Elite these units in the early morning of November 17.

In tambang that happened at 1: 30 AM in sitios, Luzcon, Brgy.
Gangalan, San Mariano, admitted that the pasista has happened even encounter; but they are not having admitted they kaswalti.
Six troops of a platun of the 51st DRC in the leadership of 2Lt again.
Cabanas died in pagtambang to them by a platun under the Reynaldo Pinon Command of the NPA.

Three hours have passed, seven troops of the 52nd DRC in the leadership of 2Lt.
Jimnah Torrepalma died (including Torrepalma) and eight others were wounded when he was ambushed by a platun under the Benito Tesorio Command of the NPA the 20-people units of the enemy.
According to the official report of Benito Tesorio Command, included in the confiscated in the pasista the three machine gun - a M60 and two K3, five M-16 rifles armalite, three night vision scopes, a Harris radio, a binocular, hundreds of bullets and 15 US Army packs.

The early morning of November 16 to go to the troops of the DRC 52nd place pinagbasehan of the gerilya of the NPA in the past days, and when there is no madatnang NPA, they all nagkubli mabuho in the area.
When a platun this to be known by the NPA who was not far, pumusisyon them in the area that the possible path of the pasista to was ambushed.

The bruises of the masses to the condition of the nagkukubling enemy, and pointed at the way they always through the military if they are moving from their pinusisyunan sitios of Mabbayad going to the barrios.
Surely move the enemy at night and it is a big possibility that they will pass by the route of the masses, so when the dark, that the three pumusisyon iskwad of platun of the NPA in a favorable position in the appointed ambush site.
Any time may be was moving to the target, that's why they did not eating dinner and not left the pusisyon.
While waiting for the whole night, did not come out of the room of the nagtatambang gerilya panapanahong inihihilata, and that the body of the thin plastic laid on a wet land.

Education of kumand of platun of the NPA how makontra the movement in the evening (night movement:) of the troops of the DRC through tambang at night (: Night ambush).
Three-kapat of the force of the nakariple sangkatlo platun and the only one to experience in opensibang fight.

The scheduled killing zone of kumand of platun is the small road in the lower part of the wake that pwinestuhan of the gerilya.
The first iskwad nakahiwalay, when there is a distance of two other iskwad; the second iskwad nakahilera, the height of the wake land is the only kublihan; and the nearby this third iskwad is hiding in some area of the banana in higher parts of the wake.
In the middle of the road and the two iskwad is cleared when pinagtamnan corn that paahon in the wake.
The dark night, and even more when magmadaling darkened day of November 17.

Past four in the morning when there is a maaninag some including the upcoming magkakadikit people, which at first'y uncertain if it as a iskwad of the NPA or enemy.
Magkakadikit and slowly in the funeral ahon between the second and third iskwad of the NPA a platung enemy; using a night vision scope in the front, not passed through the road and almost the footsteps, so that the only three meters away from the nagtatambang when they fired at them.

Do not know of natambangang enemy with the NPA in climbing wake; that's why they fired they will run more from the wake, while others, including the holding M60 machine gun in front, is umahon to come to the wake of the third iskwad pwinestuhan by the NPA.
Were met by a together with the enemy that papuputukan masinggan, he said, but it did not go off, that's why he attacked the enemy and they wrestled them.
Thrusted of another with the end of his M 14, on the side of the enemy, thrown away; he ran but was shot, she left the M60.
The first Masinggan were seized in the first blast in the shooting.

The first iskwad Nakapusisyon of the NPA in the part of the back of the enemy, but because it was not makapagpaputok napakadilim the fight and the surroundings.
Fired that they were just that; natuliro magliliwanag when the enemy when they bugsuhan of gunshots from behind.

Although't from the gunfire of the NPA from the front, side and back, not iniatras Co of an enemy of his units and instead, they stayed in the part of the wake that even when there is no makokoberan light up the surroundings.
Aside from the run down to the wake and hid in the trees below, one by one, hit the pasista, including the Co their Torrepalma.
The scattered masinggan, armalayt, pak and dead and wounded enemy is just a few meters away from the surrounding gerilya.

Around 6 AM pinasusuko, the NPA the enemies to stay in the wake.
The Co that they serious injured expressed their surrender, along with two other enemies who are wounded, which was left in the wake.
Was treated by the NPA the claims Co but the wound was treated, and the two other surrender that much the wound and survived after.
Immediately name of the NPA in a radio reporter about the wounded enemy and said they will take it to be treated.
But the twelve at noon when the two helicopter arrived and reinforcements troops of the 5th ID.

The two tambang of the NPA of November 17, the NPA were taktikang night movement of an enemy that there are things that night vision scope through the night operation and night ambush.
Severe hit the Elite to the troops of the 5th ID.

No matter what they attempt divert the attention of the public from they experienced loss, like promoting with three foreign women that with the NPA and the transporting they said that the NPA of the warriors it from Cagayan to Isabela, the meaningful maikukubli hukbong strengthening of the town and armed struggle in Isabela.



