Iza, binasbasan by Hilda By Abante TONITE Entertainment Staff July 26, 2016 in Miss saw each other.
Philippines USA Hilda Colonel seemed closed and Iza Calzado.
Iza is one of the hosts, together with Marc Nelson in Redondo Beach theater for Performing Arts.
Judges again Margie Moran and Hilda Colonel seemed closed.
For a long time, it is said that the Hilda Iza Colonel seemed closed of his generation, who was confirmed by Hilda and said that she had a blessing he Iza and a child, he treats here.
Hopefully, they have a project together again and they are really have a peg in the skill and good boss Our local actresses.
Also nagpapabata wealth and he is at the age of saying that it is not appropriate to the hairstyle magkakuwarenta is already set to continue to Piolo Pascual in a new project with Regal Films that either Once In A Lifetime or Northern lights the title.
In New Zealand, he says the shooting that will be the start of isnag months.
Santos the looks of Piolo here, but not Judy Ann but, Yen Santos.
This is not the first in the movies he Regal because they already have a I Think I'm In Love of Joyce Jimenez that so-so the earnings in the box office.
Yes, Cesar g! 2013 even got married Anna Larrucea!
And according to a asssitant by Director Peque Gallaga costa Rica, from the former child actress in living with her husband.
Hopefully, we make the feature story. about them....
It can only audition last Sunday in La band the sibling of Aljur Abrenica and Vin Allen in the ABS-CBN?
Let us anticipate passes Allen and if it is just like the first her sibling, he will be followed so their pananalo sinalihang in the reality show.
Let's just wait the See.
For the picture, The Musicale in SSeptember 21 playdate masosolo so that the Hermano Pule magpe-Premiere in Cinemalaya as closing the film.
She said that she's shooting additional and is still arranging the post-Production of a very large projects picture so that he could probably in 2017.
Relaxed and a good pagkaka- rebond of the hair of Senator Grace Poe in the opening of the Senate yesterday.
Senator Loren Legarda the consistent in pagkaposteryosa.
And Senator Bam Aquino, look more like the Uncle, Ninoy than the son of Ninoy Noynoy.



