
Flying flags, pagpapasimula of the simple celebration of the 45th anniversary of the PKP in December 26

Departments for the information of the Philippines Partido insist on December 24, 2013

Translation: Flag-raising ceremonies to helping off simple celebrations of CPP 45th anniversary on December 26 Inianunsyo of the Partido insist of the Philippines (PKP) who are the preparations for a mass to commemorate the 45th anniversary in December 26 and start in the morning of the increase of the flag of the scythe and sledge hammer of PKP along with the singing of Internationale, the international awit of the movement communists.

The flag of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), who was temporarily agreement under democratic Gubyernong Bayan of the Philippines, is also pawawagaywayin in the area of the gathering.
Will the flag of New Hukbong Bayan (BHB) and other rebolusyonaryong organisasyong masses to the gathering.

Paghahandaan of the komiteng rebolusyonaryo to flock, interbaryo and municipality, the local rebolusyonaryong organisasyong masses and the branches and Section of PKP in the lokalidad the gathering.
Be held this most of the places in the jurisdiction and authority of the organs of demokratikong gubyernong town.

Ilampung thousands of people are expected to will attend the ilampung gathering that will be held in other't't different places in the country.
Most of the people will only walk, from the nearby flock and municipality.

Also expect the PKP the thousands of visitors from the kalunsuran, including the students, workers, poor city, the doctors and professionals, the employees of the government and the driver of the jeep.
That this is also the foreign friends and the government for them to join and observation of the gathering.

"The units of BHB is makikibahagi in the gathering and will take care of the places that pagdarausan in pakikipagkoordina in the local units of milisyang" town, according to the PKP.

"Will serve as the gathering that is suitable to occasion for the Filipino people to celebrate the concrete success that they claimed to 45 years of rebolusyonaryong struggle, according to the PKP".
"They will celebrate the advancement in the field of politics, ekonomya, culture and military, even the giving service for education and medical" to the people.

Also opportunities will serve as the gathering amass and makakolekta of funds and other support to the material in a rehabilitation in the area to be hit by typhoon Yolanda.
"Among those kokolektahin and ipamamahagi, the seeds for the crops that vegetables and bungang-wood, even the suloy of the tree for reporestasyon".

The PKP calling once again in the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) to remove the troops in the area of baseng gerilya and stop the opensibo this operation to let the citizens makapaglakbay when free and they can participate in the common asembliya for the 45th anibersasryo of PKP.

According to the report, who are conducting the operation of the AFP to the sonang gerilya in Davao del Norte, Compostela Valley and Davao Oriental and other parts of Mindanao, even in the area, which was damaged by 'Yolanda' like of Samar, Leyte, Negros and in Sorsogon, Benguet and other towns in Luzon.
"In spite of might ceasefire declared the Malacañang, there is no share the operation of the AFP, it creates a widespread abuse of the human person and the international law" humane.



