
The fake Pacman at "for free live show

The whole country celebrated the courage from boxing of idol "Pacman" Congressman Manny Pacquiao.
The joke is what the trainer of Chris Algieri, Tim Lane, that it is time to sleep and retiring in boxing our National Fist.
Algieri is still almost sleep well of six times in the 12-round fight.
Long live you, Pacman.
"Right opening May some of the establishment did not open when there is a payment for going to Manny due to the suspicion that they were not able to earn.
It is because it's not like the first beauty is the fight of Pacman.
Before, because, it's still early, over when the position that they converted into farms to watch because of Manny his enemies.
Together with this is the maganang-or-order of the audience of their goods to appetizer, drinks and then the fight, then, there was still nagseselebreyt the loyal customers.
The last fight, since he can no longer sleep in tsambang punches of Manuel Marquez, is a sign of the lack of "" excitement in his fight.
There is no free in comes to us that the news, that many places that give free live film of Pacman became "" greedy.
"That in the big city hall and the city, there are two or three areas of free cinemas for the people.
Better not the captain, councilor, barangay watchman and the family of this is the very first in the list to watch as long as there is a position and even if they are just standing.
"Turns out, when the isponsor politicians.
He said that nothing the Priority Development Assistance Fund and also Disbursement Acceleration Program.
It is a big payment: In 100,000 pesos each place.
The PDAF and DAP are part of the tax of the citizens.
The free watching, ginigisa of politicians to the people in their own oil.
Not spend the politicians of their own money for the happiness of the people and in their commission or in the PDAF and DAP free from the movie "" and ipinapautang of gratitude to the people.

Is in some places in Bulacan, Nueva Ecija and Baguio, because of the lack of politicians isponsor to free boxing of Pacman, many tricycle driver nagtiyagang watch in the regular out on television.
That's because they aydul Aydul Pacman no matter what happens.
But there are lost interest when every time they sisilip on television between their trips.
Is Manny?
But even if is Manny and defenseless, it is okay to also because he is in the 12-round life and still standing.
Hehehe.
"Turns out, the son of the tofu, it was just the Manny they watched.
At first, they also wondered why the Chinese opponent of Manny and not a Americans Algieri.
The nakapanghihinayang, ipinusta their bawnderi and they see for Manny and in the midst of the fight, they do not know how they made up for when they collected by their kapustahan.
REPLAY in the napeke in the fight of the Thailander mabigkas-pronunciation that they did not make the name, they are just going to the replay of the fight.
Nagkabalitaan win because it was Pacquiao.
It wasn't the case is and there is no kwenta their aydul but his opponents to Americans.
The child of the tofu, there is still the ferocity of Pacman.
Kasarap still watch the fighting in the ring of our own Lord of the ring.
Yes, Manny the Lord of the ring, not "on the Harry Potter film.
Where. Mayweather?
The child of the tofu, now they are looking for those with Manny and Floyd Mayweather.
Before, because, just after the fight of Manny, he immediately umeeksena Mayweather.
But while we tinitipa, it's okay, that's probably no reaction Mayweather.
It can be recalled that Pacman said yes to "" yes to him in his fight against Mayweather even at a time when the recent the fight Pacquiao-Algieri.
BAWNDERI IPUPUSTA Sabi of the driver of the tricycle, they ipupusta their bawnderi for their operator and income to to the wife of the fight that Pacquiao-Mayweather.
Even if there is no free movies from the manggagantsong, mayor, Gob, senators and from Malacañang.



