
And to fight the rotten and mapagpanggap Oplan Unity!

You Wigan Moncontad Nona del Rosario Command, NPA-Ifugao March 31, 2014 when it was eleven o'clock in the evening of 21 March 2014 in Barangay Camandag, Asipulo, launched a team of Nona del Rosario Command, New People's Army- Ifugao of are against a units of 54thInfantry Batallion.
After no one more minutes of pagpaputok of the chaos, the more or less to 30 military kasalakukuyan before the getting drunk on the side of the school building and barangay clinic.
According to pinagkaisahang policy, avoided the Pulang warriors that hit the structure still works.
Based on the report of the masses, two were injured in the military and critical condition of one.

The so-called "Peace and Development Team" the units that hinarass of BHB.
They are not "resistance" because their work will implement Oplan Unity.
They will not of the school in the Barangay.
But do not believe the masses to kasinungalingang by the military because aside from due to the strong weapons and bullets, they are still nagbaon of many bottles of alcohol in traveling in said barrios.
Dinumihan and damaged by the school that they pinagkampuhan and a shot of a goat.

A long record of Pasismo of the AFP

The Baryo Camandag is one of the barangay to always go to when the mersenaryong Hukbo.
In 2010, when the 54th pumakat IB in Ifugao.
They lived nagkampo in sityo Pihipi standing, where a high school.
Aside from paghihikayat in the youth who entered the against the people they work and courting the young women there, it is also the Tiempo, the news that the military is really happy because only 200 the worth of the woman in Asipulo.
Last March 2011, cut the elements of the 86th IB the full of coffee in places that have no farewell they pinagkampuhan.
Last October 2013, after the encounter that units of the NDRC, was shot and was attacked by the 54th IB houses in sityo Binablayan, they burned the floor made out of bamboo of a house, sinulatsulatan the walls, the destroyed the dike and rice and blocked the masses to return to get their children.

These are just some of the long and bloody list of abuse of the military.
Combat or civil-military operations, the victim was the citizens in the terror in kapayapaan- threats, a baseless pagsusupetsa to the civilians as the rebels, mockery of women, there is no farewell to enter the houses, robbery and defamation of crops and other owned by the masses, simply that the bombing, blocking it from the projects livelihood of the masses and other violation of human rights.

Not katakataka that because of these activities by the hambog military, that is far from the inside of the masses to them.
Instead of the masses, the moving so they are cast in their area.
In sityo Landing where there is a Elementary School, for example, emphatically apparently of parents and teachers that they do not want magkampo there the military that's why they want to let them't.

True Unity: The cooperation between the NPA and the people

History that will prove that the New Hukbong Bayan the real along with the people in the meaningful and long-lasting change.
In Barangay Camandag, for example, together with the masses the Hukbo in sharp analysis in the quality of the project hydropower plant of SN Aboitiz Power.
The guidance of the rebolusyonaryong organization of the citizens, is united in the masses to fight for their rights as national minorya for their own decisions.
Along with this, according to the principle of pagsandig in your own abilities, hukbo the along with the masses to lead the rebolusyong Agraryo to raise the level of their production and livelihood.

Others't in different parts of the country, the NPA pinatutunayan the nonstop this serving the vast citizens.
He was full of enthusiasm in the masses in their rank economy and pampolitikang condition and nakikibahagi at work in P [roduksyon habnag pushed the rebolsuyonaryong culture that needed to pagtatagumpay of Pambansa-demokratikong revolution, and as Hukbong resistance, he is ready to dusahin the abusive troops of the military that will extend to the problems of the people.

The proper demokratikong Rebolusyong Bayan, of New Hukbong Bayan.
It should be singilin of the people the berdugong military for their sins to them and block any attempt to stay in public places like the school building, baranagay hall clinic and others.
It is just right that both of the masses and BHB pagbigo with the goals of the military and dusahin armed troops that serves as a burden to them.
The cooperation of the masses and Hukbo, maisisiguro success ngt DRB that the only solution to the problem of the Filipino society.

Upset Oplan Unity!
To push the Digmang Bayan!



