
Aquino Et Al at CIA, SABIT in Mamasapano tragedy

PINABUBUKLAT again of President Rodrigo Duterte the sloppy operation where 44 members of the Special Action Force of the Philippine National Police were killed while being hunted by the Indonesian bombing, Zulklifi Binhir alias Marwan last January 25, 2015 or two years ago.
Not contented because President Duterte is the result of the investigation that even if discussed in the Lower House the tragedy.
The thing is, nagpapasa-pasahan of their responsibility for the police, military and MILF and until now is still unclear who is really should be responsible for the lives of the policeman who was killed.
Duterte also Ibinuking the operation that the operation of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) of America that they should put the blame to the former president.
Noynoy Aquino and former PNP Chief Gen. Alan Purisima due to the hiding of the two kumag people in the whole truth about the incident that happened that led to the demise of 60 people, including 44 commandos members of the SAF.
The truth is, when the tragedy happened, the belief that we believe, even the other our colleagues in the media, in the statement of former President Noynoy that a legitimate operation was done by the members of the PNP-SAF where is being hunted by the camp of the Indonesian bombing, alias Marwan in a secluded area in Mamasapano, Maguindanao.
But unknown to the knowledge of all, natataranta and not have their own decision asked in one of the AFP official, he will do what her to go after him, who was killed the 44 police commandos of SAF-PNP that they sent to pursue Marwan.
Besides Noynoy and Purisima is also involved by Pres.
Duterte, the former DILG Sec.
Mar Roxas, why did he let the SAF 44 and why he has no aksyong to give justice to the death of them.
Should only be imprisoned and rot in jail the huwad that leader because instead of them should be mangunang defending the rights of our soldiers, are "those those who implicate them!!!
SAKLA in Quezon City in the PA also Saklang dead there, there is no saklang dead here is always nabubungaran in every town in the city of Quezon.
An alias Gaspar is said to be the floating if there is a problem with their illegal business.
Until now, it is still are scattered all over the pasaklang in Masambong, Baesa, Oriental, F.Carlos, Kaingin, Bukid, Wayan, Royal, Apolonio and San Fernando, but until now it is silent, blind and deaf to the police.
I wonder why oOo any complaint, comment or send a text message to 09189274764,09266719269 or email it in juandesabog bahalasitulfo yahoo.com.
Juan de explosion / Johnny Magalona



