
Kulob, get mouth sores, explosion or the killings of humble kind

By Rolando B. Tolentino February 11, 2012

Rebyu of rampage (Lawrence Fajardo, director, 2011), the magkakasalikop ran amok in the life of the billiards and gamble, selling barbeque, thrift shop and gun, the passengers waiting in the terminal, says personality and his dinehadong transvestite that puta, bystanders in the street't young selling cigarettes, gay male pimps, siblings in the van, just police, and other creature - people who are not acquaintances aside from the pagkakatipon in arbitraryong moments in the corner of EDSA and Pasay Taft - is tinatahi as an ordinary life in this country.
Kunsabay, it is not an ordinary abitraryong moments is the time of the movie.
This is konsumasyon for a long time that the lives of the people, the city and the country under the culture of impunidad.
Not considering the violence because of sistematiko't sistemikong history of those in power, and the pagkatagos in daily life.
The problem in the movies have laid out the daily pagkatagos of violence and culture of impunidad without linking in history and society birth.
The Microcosmic pagsisipat, even if the main road of the city the, this, who created the invisibilidad of political power.
There is a traffic enforcer but does not played the duty.
The police were already gangster nangunguntsaba of arson in the community of poor tagalunsod.
The ambulance and investigators are coming in the scene of the crime to make a post-mortem report.
There is no implication in the life of the state.
In the time of Lino Brocka, this is only a simple: The billing and portrait of the officials in the office of the mayor and ordinary citizens, the image of the altar, the picture of Rambo beside of Marcos, for example.
In the rampage, there is a staging of the action, it is also, like the scene that the bloody with a gun, the EDSA while traversing the familiar to signage that prohibited "crossed, deadly" is in the scene.
The result, like the entirety of the movie, is pastische or mixed-kalamay imitasyon that the real.
Not sharp the political commentary because of these were linked to invisibilidad of MMDA, Metro handsome, Noynoy Aquino, Palparan, Willie Revillame, and other Figura during the actual match that power.
And the pinakamatindi more problematiko of the movie: The representasyon of humble kind.
In the culture of impunidad, activists and journalists were already identified political victim.
But the wait for the kind of people is part of the biktimisasyon of the state to run amok, instead of nakakapagnilay to improve the pagdanas of panlipunang justice goes, who was running amok, and pasensyahan who just wait for the kind to be victimized.
This is what realismo in indie yet, the pay representasyon is kind to just wait for it to isadlak pejoratibong lunan: The capacity of humble kind gutted his kauri just to be given the nakulob and sumisingaw-chance exploded.
Massacre the result, that even the similar to that kind of his father in the terminal will be a witness to the pagkapatay in the teenage son, as well as the driver who was the sister of the van in his more maykayang sibling.
The movie fragmentasyon Nakakalibang because of the staff, the scene and stories, and in kulminasyon of relationship in the moment of went amok.
Nakakalibang but the expense of humble type, it seems that we are just watching the familiar to fight of neighbors who squatter, snatching and shoplifting, the conflict of jumping in the U.P. jologs Fair, and other spektakulong ikinakamada in the body of the humble kind.
There is a pambobosong ran amok, because what is happening in the streets of negosiasyon sityo of life and death.
There is no redempsyon, who is a characteristic of indie yet in the present.
But there is a kalitatibong changes, just like in the movie by Brillante Mendoza.
There will be a change because the director, actors, viewers, sabjek complaints being discussed in the movie, is that it is also must be fully steady in the mold of the state: People who are not acquaintances aside from the magkakahalintulad that kind of source and society is included.
There is a difference of pagdanas based on the pribilehiyadong position in society, and dangerous "genocide" (in the case of the movie, the kind ubusan) perspektiba historikal and panlipunang as the resolution of the problem.



