
Change Scamming: Where Na Ang change

David D'Angelo shame - Shame, opinion - opinion, President Rodrigo Duterte

Wearing detaine, Senator Leila de Lima and have been removed from the position in the Senate the LP Senators.
There is no in the position in the Kabinete Vice President Leni Robredo and buried, Marcos in the Libingan ng Mga Bayani.
In spite of this, they are still continuing to the traffic in EDSA, the problems in the MRT, the contractualization and the mass retrenchment, the gyera in Mindanao, the decrease of the value of the peso and many others.
Coming change is really or Change Scamming?

When Pa Ang change?

Within six months if not lost the criminality etc. etc., resigned from his position, President Rodrigo Duterte "Digong".
More than six months have passed and it seems that there is no clear changes that happened in our country.
Anyway, more than 7,000 who died that the right is allegedly addicts, dealers, pushers and others.
Almost a million surrendered and said that will not stop in illegal drugs - a big change.
First time in the history of our country so I salute to this event.

But where are the other things or even just pasulyap that there will be changes that will happen.
Got worse traffic in EDSA, are still often destroy the train of MRT... hmmm anyway, the problem is that of the former administration but isn't that also said that he will be?

It is prohibited to complain?

It is prohibited to complain or not agree to aitng president?
Good and strong the inside of President Duterte and I am in awe of his ability but it should block the those who are opposing with or does not want it turns out that he wants to?
It's scary that suddenly removed the senators of the Liberal Party in their duty after they did not support to reinstate death penalty resurfaced bill (read the news from the Rappler).
Then is a woman like Senator Leila de Lima are now detain, there is evidence and will be charged.

What is happening in our country?
There will be a change even or change scamming that it really?
What is your perspective here?



