Fight for peace

It is such a waste to not be solved immediately by the New People's Army's call of President Rodrigo Duterte "Digong" for kabilaang ceasefire in the war.
It can be remembered that it was first announced as president.
Digong ceasefire against the NPA on the very day of his State of the Nation Address but it because of a ambus done by the rebels in a group of the armed forces of the government in Davao del Norte.
The president gave a grace for the explanation of the rebels in the incident until 5: 00 in the afternoon two days ago but still failed to respond to the NPA.
On the other hand, the NPA operation conducted by the forces of the government in spite of the mandate of the ceasefire, the President and they only defended himself.
In the end, Joma Sison said that they say they are just ahead of President Rodrigo Duterte "Digong" because it was around 8: 00 in the evening the declaration of the NPA ceasefire, or three hours before taken back by Pres.
Digong the unilateral ceasefire.
ASA there, in the middle of the incident, it looks like this, it is not yet arrive in the intention and step towards the peace talks that the ceasefire, is just one of the content of it.
Still has no other retracts as president.
Duterte on the steps in his desire to the Filipino mawakasan that has killed around 30,000 people since last March 29, 1969 that pagkakatatag by the NPA.
It was the companion of the ceasefire, only the rules how will implement the ceasefire, and the normal order the pakikipagbakbakan pwersang of the government in the NPA.
Not included in malilinaw retracts the president while we tinitipa this is the conversation between the rebels and the government in Oslo, Norway for the peace talks.
The President also not retracts the appointment of the nominees of the leftist groups in some high position in the government.
That is why, there is hope will push through, they are still looking for a way towards peace and unity of the two parties.
There are really not only avoided that incident or mistake that also normal in what is happening even things like this issue.
One of the remains was able to grab on something we look at, it's a big possibility of having a harmony-that the big will of the leadership of the communist Party of the Philippines, National Democratic Front and the NPA for this.
They being the difference of the President to other past the president is really different in the interest of the people and the country.
The President now, they think, the can accommodate even just in the welcoming address step towards the changes in society that they wanted to happen.
"That = = = pagkiling a lot of the current president of the millions of poor people who are fighting for it.
With the pagkiling to millions of poor the destruction of regulation end of contract is being implemented by the lust and opportunistic capitalists have against the workers and a big reason for the suffering of them.
There is also making it right in the destructive and illegal mining that there is a concurrent militarisasyong more protection to the miners than the protection of the people and the environment.
The President also shows the strong defense against the meddling of the foreigners in the management of the country.
In the belief that is why we still was able to grab on something, the other group in the belief that there is no reason for the cancellation of the agreement-that and achieve permanent peace for the whole country.
Matches at gasoline Talaga one of the time, it seems like this are the matches and gasoline.
The revolution or war is like gasoline that easily been.
Today is resting the revolution or war in spite of the problem in the ceasefire.
Hopefully, everyone is not handle the matches and definitely does not make a pagkiskis gasoline and thrown in the fire that matches.
As told by Digong: While nagbibilangan from both sides of the dead in one't one, he can see the pitiful condition of those who are widowed and orphaned by my and the country has been in poverty because of the war.
He added, if not do the opposing sides that magmahalan for now, hopefully the role pagkamuhi deeply in one't one.
Peace to support the only means of all, the call of our own that we will not be a hindrance in unity, harmony-that, peace and widespread change.
We also avoid-lighting of matches and ihagis in gasoline for the revolution to been been when the killings in one't one.
Enough to mamayapa the 30,000 was killed in the war and more than that many citizens are struggling and losing their future because of the revolution.



