
PNoy and politicians will bring to the gun: BIFF naghamon of war

February 13, 2015

Challenged the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighter were killed (BIFF) politicians and even President Benigno Aquino to go in Mindanao and fight in a war.

The BIFF made the statement after the hearing in the Senate and the House about the Mamasapano encounter.
Last January 25, attacked by more than 300 members of the PNP-Special Action Force the hiding place of terrorist Zulkifli bin Hir alias Marwan where they killed it.
In spite of this, 44 members of the SAF were killed in the incident, aside from the wounded personnel makaengkwentro after the forces of the BIFF, Moro Islamic Freedom Fighter were killed (MILF) and other armed groups in Brgy.
Tukanalipao, Mamasapano, Maguindanao.
In the hearing in the Senate, the first called terrorists, particularly of Senator Alan Peter Cayetano the MILF and BIFF because of the brutal and inhumane killing in the police served the warrant of arrest Marwan.
In spite of this, said of BIFF spokesman Abu Misri Mama in an interview in pahayagang Philippine Daily Inquirer's released news that they are not terrorists and instead, just fighting for their rights.
Even reply to my mother, the troops of the SAF and the government of the United States is the real terrorists because of the attack by them in their land.
"We Are not terrorists.
We Are fighting a legitimate cause.
The soldiers, SAF (Special Action Force) and the US government Are the terrorists because they intrude into Our Land will want to take IT fight from the US, "statement.
Mama still challenge to the officials of the government, and this is also the weapons and go in Mindanao to fight them.
If "they really want, Aquino is all these politicians should bring the guns" March to Maguindanao.
If "they will come here, we will give them what they want.
We will show them a real all that Far is different from what they See in the Movies, "statement of my mother.
In a separate interview that the to my mother, he admitted that they have some things of the killed members of the SAF.
Contrary to earlier said the MILF to on the side of the BIFF Mama said that they have no intention to return the guns and other things that they took in the killed police.
Yesterday in the hearing in the Senate will attend for the first time, MILF peace talks panel negotiator Mohagher Iqbal.
Iqbal said in his statement that the group they are in the BIFF.
Although't Iqbal admitted that some of their personnel involved in the encounter in Mamasapano, he said that a misencounter what happened and he again insisted that the desire of the MILF to push through with the peace talks for Mindanao.-DCR



