Sunday, April 13, 2014

A different kind of Talaga 'Pag Pacquiao Ang Laban

Even in the morning I feel the peace and order in the area, not only because of the palaspas weeks now and day.
Early nagsimba people as a way of remembering the very day of pagpapakasakit of the son of God.
I really want to, but I was watching the fight of Pacquiao and Bradley Jr., that is why I am not nagsimba.
Anyway, that for a long time we have not nakapagsimba of my family.
If the date of the week, that is the kind of fight especially't Pacquiao.

Yesterday, I thought that I hope to win the so-called "National Fist" of the Philippines.
I thought that he was once again rise from severe defeat against Juan Manuel Marquez, who is one of the most difficult to his enemies.
Marquez, who was lucky to nagpabagsak Pacquiao in 2012 in the fourth against, in the sixth round was the one who gave the disease of emotion and pride of the Filipinos admiring your of excessive Pacquiao.
Pansamatalang were shocked when the puwersiya of the country at that time, and one by one, lost faith Pacquiao some of the fans allegedly due to his taking anib in a new religion, because she is not wearing his rosaries, and because he was not able to do the former style where she napapatumba his enemies.

In his recovery of the severe pagkalugmok defeated Brandon Rios, he is also worried that the scoffing on him.
And in the end, he also admitted that it is really tough, Pacquiao, that is why in an article that I have read that maybe he will win again Manny bout with Bradley.
Marquez, she said that she does not want to fight Pacquiao, that's why he wants to win, Bradley so they are still competing and to make it up to defeat against Bradley.
Mayweather Jr, who is one of the things that does not want to fight Pacquiao, Bradley was still taught her how to beat Pacquiao.

And even now, because I have watched for free to live streaming the fight for the second time, I hope that prevail Pacquiao.
Masigabo the start of the ring announcer sinabayan that the hiyawan of the people in the area.
It is quiet the two boxers because maybe they think on how to start and end the fight.
They think what will be the result of their career if one of them to lose.

That's why when the fight is immediately start from each side.
Inside the 12-round, became aggressive still Pacquiao because he is the challenger in this fight, and maybe he thought he needs to defeat, Bradley because he uttered words that he pababagsakin (Bradley).
In this fight, I noticed that it is not the said that Bradley because he was deliberately being beaten by excessive Pacquiao because almost every bitiw hit the real Pacquiao in him.

I noticed that it is being used by Bradley the style of Mayweather, who used the size of the body, playing with Pacquiao and mapang-is what really.
But not even Pacquiao because if magkagayon, he may be more weakened and his popularity that may magtulak in his pagre-Retiro.
Several times he was hit Pacquiao heavy punches but more ibinabalik the end.
One of these is the consecutive punches (8 consecutive) that hit on the face of Bradley.
In a corner, it is the reaction of the mother of Pacquiao while watching the fight holding the rosaries, and a librito.

The fight inside the 12-round and became the unanimous decision of the judges in favor of Pacquiao.
And in the end, it is really tough Bradley admits that Pacquiao because he does not napagbagsak like he thought and even if it is not umuurong-any enemy.
Manny Pacquiao's grade again the belt against Bradley where Bradley (before the fight) that this will not yet of Manny.

On Facebook, the happiness of the fans of Manny here in the Philippines, especially those in the Big screen watched for free like this in Taguig, Marikina and other't other parts of our country as giving was to the people.
A few hours it became silent the surroundings.
Every time there is a fight with Manny Pacquiao has really a huge effect on our viewers, and our country.
For sure, will be the rumors that this is the inside of our country.



