Planted in every move

The "intelektwal, like the writers, is always't always (necessarily) public," Prop said.
Luis V. Teodoro, progresibong intelektwal and teachers of journalism, in his new sanaysay "Writers that the Public Intellectuals".
Course the said lot in his speech susing "Interpreting the World: The writer is going to be Public Intellectual" in kumperensya of balangay in the Philippines of Pen (Poets, Essayists, Playwrights, the Novelists).
According to Teodoro, "not like Pilosopo Tasyo, we cannot do that intelektwal just to hide in which sisidlan his discovered and understood, let this discovery of the future, when it is not letting go of his duties in the future, the foundation, he can help to" at present.
There is an exact meaning, however, the praseng "public intelektwal" in the US, where he started and was known.
And in this pakahulugang, contrary to what was said by Teodoro, not always't always public being intelektwal and writers - even if the writing poems, Dula, sanaysay or nobela.
According to the scholar, Russell Jacoby, which is one of the people responsible for the pagtampok of prase, "mean [, in general, the term] (roughly) of a intelektwal using everyday language to discuss the issue, there is a general meaning, a person who is writing not only for the professionals that journal, but for the newspapers for all [" The Decline of American Intellectuals, "" 1989].
It is the second divided of decades "80 written and published the saliksik of Jacoby, because it was focused on the midyang nakalimbag like the newspaper and magazine.
In the continued to spread of the television and after the internet in the next decades, nangahulugan the "public intelektwal" of the use of the midya to send this to let the public issues, they are.
In other things, it could not be avoided, nangahulugan this is also being intelektwal that famous "" or celebrity.
Based on this kind of meaning in public intelektwal "", many could also in the country, both in Kaliwa, right and gumigitna.
But there is a public intelektwal that meaningful pay attention: The makatang, Axel Pinpin.
Interesante and beneficial to look into the praktika him as a public intelektwal.
Identified by the many, Pinpin with the so-called "Tagaytay 5," activists in the southern Katagalugan that illegally arrested, tinortyur and then imprisoned for more than two years of the government.
After he was freed, the Pinpin in being activists in the southern Katagalugan.
In the ranks of the activists, known as Pinpin in his pagtula.
He, maybe even more than in the poem he nalimbag and naisalibro pagtula, in the gathering - rally pangkultura, night, awards, and others.
Prominente and permanent with him in the lakbayang launched by the activists and the citizens of the southern Katagalugan, included in the ranks, nagkokoordina oorganisa the movement, and of course, tumutula to others't other chapter.
She is like a special leader people for the activists.
He favorite invite others't other gathering to poem more enthusiastically.
The reading, he often welcoming of peace and finishing the strong applauded.
Many are nagpapakuha pictures with him and there are witnesses of pagtili to him by some fans, even if it is not a minor.
Also favorite and wanted to share, I-like and share, the poem on the internet.
You cannot discount the value of pagtula her, especially in the ranks of the masses.
The theory, "" said Karl Marx, "becomes material forces together with the pagkapit" it to the masses.
And in the doing of Pinpin, nailalapit and napapakapit the progresibong theory of the masses - in a way that kongkreto, it is clear, maalab, and it can be recalled.
Kongkreto nakalapat, because of the issue and an issue that is experienced in the time of the masses, they are experiencing and in time they are fighting in relation to this.
Effective the poem of Pinpin about pasismo of the state, for example, not only because they are good as a poem.
They are effective because they are reading in front of the common fighting militarisasyon, pagkamkam of land, demolition and even dissolution of the ranks of the rally - and often, at the time still fresh are the wounds.
He pinapahapdi together and pinaghihilom pinapatatag the wound, and when the courage to more fight.
There were also fame, Pinpin in the academy and the tangkilik of panitikan; there are poems, he was in the MRT.
But not associated with fame, he often fear and doubt of the progresibong of arts in the west where their likha will be like an image of Che Guevarra - in many kamiseta, a source of income of the system, it is as if there is no radical message, and without any danger to the rules.
With this observation the progresibong kritikong, Terry Eagleton then: "With the understanding tendensyang palasuko be lonely and the American liberal and radical, because they are sore pagkamalay in the speed of the most rebolusyunaryong likhang art is already in will be placed under the chemical Bank [The Significance of Theory, 1990]".
But not nalalamon, Pinpin and not lumalabnaw his message - and there is also no telling it.
The reason why he magkaganito: Refused.
As told by the Eagleton, "if your beloved rebolusyonaryong likhang-art is can be eaten by the system, it is the only means one thing: Not enough to not being pasabog or subersibo, but... they have no real root of a pangmasang movement pampulitika and oposisyunal..." but was even more Pinpin in makatang naglalapit of his likhang-arts of the masses.
Said that time of progresibong director Lino Brocka, he is not interested in the best that movie, but in the best Filipino viewers.
, Pinpin, not only involved in the best poems, but also in improving in the Filipino masses.
He did not just organisador words, but also by the people.
He did not just fishing of the metapora fishing boat, as they say, but also of the people for a change.
During the time of the insureksyunismo in the Philippines, during the "80, there is that thought to plant by armed men in the ranks of the nagrarali.
Maybe, it is more dangerous to the rules in every action of the masses, the makatang like Pinpin the planted.
I hope in'y, there, the number of the activists, of arts and public intelektwal like of Axel Pinpin!



