Zanjoe are-develop is to Bela?
(Similar to the ex Bea!); at the height of the ratings of shows Dreamscape Entertainment reporting for the mass thanksgiving

Posted by: Peter Ledesma on January 30, 2017 in showbiz

LAST Thursday, reporting for the mass thanksgiving Dreamscape Entertainment team led by the business unit head, Sir Deo Endrinal and Ma'am Julie Anne Benitez that seems to want to celebrate his rather, birthday three days August, sinorpresa Coco Martin and well-attended the surprise party.
The said mass is gratitude of Dreamscape in Itaas, and all of the show they from 2015 the This 2017 are all the same higher ratings and every show of said TV Production is loaded with commercials.
The FPJ's Ang Probinsyano Coco Martin, has been number one in the primetime ratings that the protagonist is lagging behind in the latest nationwide 37.8 percent, 39.5 percent (Rural) and Metro Manila to 35.3 percent.
17 percent and above the ratings of double Kara to be shown in the last two weeks and reached 35.4 percent, the Pilot of the new gift stories in WANSAPANATAM Presents "My hair Lady" film that again of Loisa Andalio together with Jameson Blake and Mark Oblea.
And the kapapalabas that "My Dear Heart" super proud the super happy the whole team because it reached 31.5 percent, the ratings in Metro Manila.
Even if the inspirational kapapalabas-drama series, "immediately on social media and often the number one trending every episode it, especially the Pilot.
In the 31 percent, the ratings of the soap in the survey by Kantar media natiowide that humamig of 32 percent of Urban.
The latest news, especially the delinquent exciting scenes every night in the My Dear Heart.
Especially when the scene of the character of the foul, Nayomi "Heart" Ramos; taking that parents, Zanjoe Marudo and Bela Padilla as Jude and Clara; and grandmother, Dra.
Margaret Divinagracia, best heart surgeon who are both skillful the portrayal.
A resounding the news that are starting to fall for each other, Zanjoe and Bela and said a couple, the two.
If the rumors Makokompirma Bela were taken by Zanjoe in watching a concert of globally famous that around Coldplay this April in the Mall of Asia Arena.
That's why he nadevelop the-skinned actor in his new leading lady because it is also a big similarity to his ex-girlfriend, Bea Alonzo.
Well Good luck to both of them gyud!
Xian Lim happy in Welcome in him by Bea Alonzo in "A Love to LAST" actor will act of rival by Ian Veneracion at the recent presscon for Xian Lim, the start of the week This character in "A Love life to Last" as sea- Totoy that it was a childhood friend and likes to Andeng (Bea Alonzo), the hunk actor, she is happy and he immediately reported Welcome of Bea in their soap and thanked the Pretty Actress.
", thank you for being here," say to him and he admired here because even if Big star, is kalog and real-true to yourself.
Excited who was allegedly Xian in the entry of his character in ALTL.
"So happy to Work with Her (Bea), wow overwhelming with the whole cast specially the family of Andeng in Batangas.
They are often makaeksena because of the actor returned to him in Batangas to show to Andeng and ipagpatapat that the true, he feels the young lady Batangueña, not naipahayag before because there is no-no maialok that he and he does not have a good future.
The problem is when there is a good relationship with Andeng and rich boss, Engineer.
Anton Noble when they lived together in Germany for business this form of tripping where.
Good luck so that if who is going to win the heart of Andeng?
In the performance is as the third to Ian and Bea?
There is a reason is the "entering the scene, and he was not simply put.
But if he contravida palalabasing to Andeng and Anton, it is just because it means that he is effective "portrayal in the series.
I watched the A Love life to Last, weeknights right after "My Dear Heart" that of a love that of a love also watch all the televiewers in the ABS-CBN Primetime stars.
TAKI irritation with the PASIKLAB by SHAIRA Mae for Bae MIGGY in "TROPS" Porke't she gets to Bae Miggy in "TROPS" even if there is a suitor, Kenneth Bae, that he loves and serious with him.
It is very annoyed or irritability of Taki in woman dumidikit to Miggy, Mandy (Shaira Mae dela Cruz) and is what really is what really together every time they see the two and called the boss of Mandy the friend.
Of Taki also does not want to associate or involve the said Girl that he is feeling will want to Miggy that he did not know, he is still in the heart of the young man so that you just nagparaya in-trops, Kenneth.
Then is boyish (lesbian) the former of Mandy, the beauty is still.
Well it is not impossible to happen that can be develop, Miggy here.
But the KenTaki (Kenneth-Taki) team and MiKi (Miggy-Taki) team will continue to waiting for lovelife of the three and they want chicken, they will end up together.
I watched the TROPS, Mondays to Fridays and 11: 30 A.M before Eat Bulaga on GMA-7.



