Aetas and Bembol, boards in the Best actor Cherry Pie, Best Actress By GORGY RULA July 22, 2016 SUCCESSFUL the the recent 1st ToFarm Film Festival that made of Doctor.
Milagros How of Universal Harvesters, Inc. and by Director Maryo J. delos Reyes.
After a week of filmfest Awards night two days ago in Makati Shangri-La Hotel.
Star-studded the said recognition responded by the respected artists like of Lorna Tolentino, Edu Manzano, Jaclyn Jose and Cherry Pie Picache.
The movie wagi Paglipay by Zig Dulay and Pitong Kabang Palay of Maricel Cariaga that a farmer.
The Paglipay the Best taking her pictures where also confiscated by Zig the Best Director trophy.
The story of the life and love of a Aetas the complaints being discussed the movie Paglipay Aetas and it is true that the director Zig that took the lead.
Won the protagonist Aetas, Garry Cabalic where he tie Best actor, Bembol Roco that stars of the movie Pauwi Na.
It is the story is Garry because after the movie, she is back to the normal life in Zambales with his wife't children.
He Pinapadalo Awards night because he will win Best actor, but it was not nagpasabi because he can reach the river in them, so he will makaluwas of Manila.
The doctor did.
How of Universal Harvester, he fetched by the helicopter to attend the Awarding.
She had immediately by the Best actor trophy even if he is not an actor.
It seems that he has no plans to continue the actor because it is more she wanted the normal lives in Zambales.
Zig director apologized to them because their lives in the troubled Botolan to complete the said film.
Cherry Pie the Best Actress from the movie Pauwi Na.
You can clearly too much game when she accepted the said Award because he said that for a long time "didn't make movies and now is an award.
"Like First time I receive an award.
IT's been time for the President, he has a on a personal note IT's very Special, because for a long time, I did not receive a movie, the This is one of the first.
"IT means a lot," statement of the great actress after he accept the Best Actress trophy.
She was still a bit emotional in his acceptance speech inalay because she is still on his mother who've departed nami-Miss he still.
Now, especially that he is my inspiration to make a movie like Pauwi Na.
Happy in-announce the festival director, the director Maryo that extended when a week the ToFarm film fest.
Watch the six entries from SM Megamall.
They will begin to receive entries for the next ToFarm film fest.
But they have the ToFarm Songwriting Competition to still in our farmers.



