The 82-year-old palabang history of CEGP

As natatangi and the oldest alliance of the publikasyong pangkampus in the country, celebrated the College Editors Guild of the Philippines (CEGP) their the 82 year anniversary of writing, fighting, and favorable this year.
Figure came since this last July 25, 1931, history became a witness in a few decades of fighting CEGP inside and outside of the university.
Started with four publikasyon then, up to the group of more than 700 publikasyon from more than 60 provinces in the country at present.
In his long history, the birth of CEGP individuals who is known to the country in the other't other field chose.
Some of them were Helena Benitez, Renato Constantino, Abraham Sarmiento Jr., Antonio Tagamolila, Emmanuel Lacaba, Ma.
Lorena Barros, Armando Malay, Lourdes Simbulan, Isagani Yambot, Satur Ocampo, Teodoro Casino, and many, many others.
And most of this, the great - and not only the witnesses - CEGP forming in the history of the fighting of the people.
The condition of the publikasyong pangkampus Ngayon, like in the past the time, once again faced the campus press in the threat't challenge.
According to Marc Lino Abila, national general secretary of CEGP now, they recorded more than 250 violation of the freedom of speech in the university from 52 publikasyong attended the 73rd National Student Press Convention which was held at the University of San Carlos in Cebu City last April.
Some of them were libelong ikinaso to Jesusa Paquibot patnugot, chief of UP Outcrop of the University of the Philippines- Baguio, because of his writings in articles for almost two years ago.
"That the court issued a warrant of arrest for Paquibot last August last year where he was able to post bail from donations of the organization and friends for his temporary freedom.
Current hears the case, "according to Abila.
Shared the CEGP, the case of the charges against libelong UE Dawn of the University of the East because of the lampoon issue for it.
Not nangulekta fee publication of the administration from last year (2012).
The face of Eulogio Earist Technozette "" Amang Rodriguez Institute of Science and Technology (EARIST) to the threat of closing the publikasyon since last March if it did not accept the adviser that itinatalaga of the administration for them.
"Stated in memorandum released by the administration that the adviser who has the power to get involved in all aspects of publikasyon from choosing nilalalam publikasyon up to use the funds for the publikasyon," according to Abila.
Meralco temporarily sinuspindi the operation of the Philippine Artisan of Technological University of the Philippines (TUP) -Manila this semestre because of a blind item tumtutukoy that the director of student Affairs of TUP-Manila.
It is also had a hard time to enrol the staff that all the critical writers in the policy in the university.
"Also face to replace the editorial staff of publikasyon.
Also serves as a burden to the situation of the publikasyon pagbaliktad regent of their student who was a former chief of publikasyon patnugot against them, according to Abila ".
She removed the process of collecting the fee of the publication The Chronicler of Polytechnic University of the Philippines (PUP) -Taguig semestre now.
The administration is not recognized as the official publikasyong pangkampus the The Chronicler.
There is a threat is also close the publikasyon of the University of Cagayan Valley.
Who filed a complaint that the Commission on Higher Education in Cagayan the balangay of CEGP represyong about this.
They still continue in the dialogue with the administration in the present.
Still the manual pangungulekta fee of the publication of the students The Angelite of the Holy Angel University (HAU) to remove it from the administration of the process of paningil in 2011 because of the issue of publikasyon lampoon.
Even the other publikasyon "of the students inside the HAU manual, the pangungulekta because of this.
They went down the nakukulekta for the operation of the publikasyon since then that resulted in low as only naipapalimbag newspaper so that the students, "according to Abila.
Target against insurhensya Dati other accused of the military the organisasyong like CEGP as simpatisador by armed rebels in the Philippines.
Once clearly pinaratangan that this will be the guilder or members of the New People's Army (NPA).
2005 under the Oplan Bantay Laya release presentasyon when the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) "Knowing Thy Enemy" stated that he will be considered by the NPA the CEGP.
This is still ongoing under the Oplan Unity of Aquino, according to CEGP.
He has many received reports of harassment of his members.
Even the officials in the office of the National CEGP is receiving harassments.
"February last year when the Surveillance the kumbensyon of CEGP in Samar.
Followed by the officials until in the house of a guider (calls on the members of the CEGP) to there mapalipas in the evening.
They know that they are dangerous kumontak then so that they know they from the media, "according to Abila.
Marc Lino Abila, the Secretary-General of CEGP.
(Pher Pasion) Ayon to them, there is a man who is asking for the other house if they are still there.
They were not able to sleep that night because of fear.
They were helped by the members of the National Union journalist of the Philippines (NUJP) in Samar to safe to deliver it to the airport.
Is puzzled by Karl Doceo, Vice-President for Visayas of CEGP, why including the members of the publikasyon in order of battle of the military from the copy of that they got.
"A staff of Earist Technozette were followed by a suspected agents of the military.
While walking the staff, he was asked by following him if a member of the publikasyon.
Denied that he was a member of the publikasyon because of fear and told him that she did not follow this, according to Abila ".
The Pioneer of Palawan State University (PSU), the report that was released by the presentasyon the AFP in their school saying fronts or members of the NPA were members of the CEGP.
Even specified the identities of the staff of the publikasyon.
As well as the report by the residents of Cagayan Valley.
Abila added that, in the celebration of the anniversary of the 82 CEGP, there is a specified agents that they follow them from early morning.
They are trailed by them until the venue of the celebration in Visayas Avenue, Quezon City.
CJA scrap in spite of outright harassment and threats in the campus press, the fighting of CEGP of domination in the freedom of speech pangkampus.
Abila added, the use of Campus burned down Journalism Act of 1991 (CJA of 1991) of the school to suppress the publikasyong pangkampus.
Approved the CJA of 1991 to protect the publikasyong pangkampus.
But in the implementation of the law, the opposite happened according to CEGP.
"Yes, there are positive in the law.
But the lack of penalty clause or punishment for those who violate this will give you the strength of the administration to use the CJA of 1991.
If you want to close the admin publikasyon or do not mangulekta of publication fee, or suspended because of a campus journalist sinulat they can do this, because they will not be punished of this law, "according to Abila.
Today is pushing for the CEGP pagbabasura of CJA of 1991 and pagsasabatas of Campus burned down Press Freedom Bill of Kabataan Party-list in Congress.
But it is still not be enough for the violation of publikasyong mahinto pangkampus according to Abila.
"Will be a big help to the Campus burned down Press Freedom Bill if this maisasabatas.
But even, she did not stop in the campus press despite violations, as long as the education't komersiyal't slave, as long as the condition of the workers, there is no land the farmers, as long as the political't remained, kultural and ekonomiyang crisis in society, according to Abila ".
In the history of the great motto of CEGP "that life to write is already to choose" (Ang writing is one when choosing) nakalulan the long experience of pagkikisangkot and favorable in the ranks of the pinagsasamantalahang citizens.
According to his members, for a long time that the CEGP shattered the "mito of niyutralidad" or objectivity in journalism.
According to Abila, the kind of the violation of publikasyong pangkampus due to the crisis in society who tumatagos to the issue of the school.
Separated, he said, the issue of the national issues in the university that is why it should not mahiwalay the journalists in society.
"If lessen the volume of the budget of education, who will increase their fees, he will report of the publikasyong pangkampus and he does not want to show of the administration.
Even if it is in the private school, because the komersiyal education, all sorts of bills the pinipiga of the students.
Will report (this) of the campus journalists.
The are being picked on now (this) of admin no matter how they are objective, "according to Abila.
According to Abila, experience of the publikasyong pangkampus sistematikong attacked that they are becoming a critical when the contents of the publikasyon in the issue inside and outside of the university.
"In the present, there are still saying that should be no favored the journalists.
But the natuturo experience and history for us to be a change in the society.
And if you stay in the middle or the position of nyutralidad in the time of taking advantage and bullying, in esensiya side, and when you were taking advantage of the harm, "according to Abila.



