Monday, June 18, 2012

Philippines Kong Holy Week is a tribute to our beloved country.
The land our origin and continue to offering the grace and blessings, whatever, any of, saanman, and will never.
He has no candidates.
All of us will IsangPilipino, spirit, the heart, the soul, and in deed.
Any gift or gift our natanggap---kahit that this is the heat of love, an award which is a heart of sympathy, it is absolutely concern, haplit of understanding, and even the things or material that we can't iniregalo---kailanman mahahawakan.
We even to tighten the handling, take care of or hide, it will be lost to us.
The present is missing the importance; and the power of this'y no strength.

The attention to this, who kidnapped and punuin a hand of sand, if you tried to stop the irresponsible throwing this through when pagkimis of your fist, many between the fingers are falling.
Lay out and just let the hands to be outstretched and magkakadikit the fingers, going to the fall of the sand.

This is also what our pagtunghay in life; if you are greedy and is quite strict fair bigayan, especially that you will lose.
If you are thirsty or masiba, and you will be abandoned.
You are lazy and always hoping to others, you are not going to be quiet and peaceful ever.

Like the gift, this is not hiding and pinaluluma at the time.

It is used as a value gave and inihahandog to others.
And continue to inihahandog again to others without hinto.
And because of the number of people who were, once again go back to the more than allocated to us.

Anything that was given to us, this is not we owned.

Lent it was just like our hiram life.
Everything is short and there is scheduled to end.

A big sin the not use your talents and hidden traits.
It was given to you so that they can use your character in making a good for all.
In service is the only true happiness that our dreams.

We have taken advantage of the opportunity to perform the role in this gift that was given to us.
Our patronize, care for, and enrich it to serve to others.
Our country is a gift to us, and there is no others like this.

There is no liligaya more than the love of your own us, from the 7,107 nakabibighaning that the islands and naggagandahan this environment, it is only kagigiliwan.
Ipinagbubunyi and ipinagkakapuri this we all the people, and to whatever part of the world.

We should accept that we are really lucky in having a country Philippines.
Our land tinubuan again and kinagisnan back-to go back to the no pagsasawa and pagmamaliw.

You, a, all of us are maluwalhating receiving the gift ipnagkaloob to us,

As the true Filipinos.



