Paris attack in the Philippines

The government should not be magrelaks and the people about the threat of terrorism saanmang parts of the Philippines.
May happen, for example, the forehead'y simultaneously bombing in the bus and others't other parts of Metro Manila and bombing of Light Railway Transit in Blumentritt, Manila.
As well as pupwedeng repeat of the bombing in a ship of super Ferry 14 kinamatayan of around 120 people, including many students and teachers, outside of Manila Bay while traveling the ship from Manila going in Visayas and Mindanao.
The pagbomba in the said ship the worst made by the terrorists in all of the countries in South East Asia, especially in the ocean.
400 + dead in the record from the year 2000 until 2007, more than 400 people died.
Maybe nagdoble that the number of people getting killed if he will let the victims of terrorism from the year 2008 until now.
Included in the victims is the kinikidnap for ransom, the enemy, they pinupugutan "" and binobomba and being shot at, especially in Mindanao.
If he will let the tremendous fear of the people and the disappearance and pagksira of the livelihood and the future of the thousand, but any million people, the child of the tofu, is the terrorism.
That is why, as long as everyone can't, should not be repeated the bombing and shooting of the terrorists.
And if not stop and is just a small amount, for the victims of the people's soul.
The soul because there is no these vile people that they victimized and seems to be intentionally the civilians who are innocent and defenseless the robbers target.
Do not ignore the authorities would deny it, especially the military, who are not members or supporters of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, were encountered and killed in the conflict in Mindanao in the past few days.
Included in those who were killed the two allegedly Indonesian that might trainor of the "" terrorists.
It was only used the ISIS flag of those who were killed to panlito to the authorities in the likeness of those who were killed.
However, should not believe that the citizens of the statement by the authorities in the number of the failures of the statement of them in the issue.
If not a failure, are intentionally panlitong statement to not alarmed whichever there is interest in the issue while there is ongoing remedy to the problem.
Then just telling the whole truth if nakokorner of journalists and the people that none of the events and almost everything, for example in the investigation of the Congress or in the report of the similar to the United Nations.
The Americans, PRANSES Ang caution and cooperation against the terrorists is really needed because of having we of the hundreds or thousands of foreign targets.
Especially the foreign active in defending in their "Mother Organization" in other countries, like ISIS in Iraq and Syria.
The Americans, that Pranses pinatayan of 130 people in Paris attack, Russian that pinatayan of 240 people through pagbomba civilians in an airplane in Egypt, Arab and others.
An example of ispesyal pagtarget that the foreigners the bombing that happened in the word, Indonesia that kinamatayan hundreds of foreigners and Indonesians.
Ran and hid in the Philippines, I love is one of those who have made the bombing in the word and no other than Marwan that kinamatayan of the Special Action Force 44 and wounded many other police of SAF.
Crowded places reminders of the authorities, be careful in crowded places.
Because this area is usually the target of the terrorists, there is a foreigner or not.
The mall, church, are fiestas, bus station, train, boat and plane himself.
If not avoid it, there is a need to being observant, quickly communication and strict cooperation to the authorities.
Remember this: Not able to one of the authorities is against it.
They need to the people, not only in the actual pakikipambuno but also in intelihensya before the any attempt to terrorism, while this happening and after the incident.
A good example what is happening in Paris attack that everything became active in following in the footsteps of the terrorists from Paris, France until the Germany, Belgium and others that there was the arrest of the kakutsaba of the, of the said attacks.

Ultimatum / Benny ANTIPORDA



