The secret by Jolo

Small but this is the taguri terrible- to Jojo James Stagen, the 5 "4 feet Filipinos undefeated mixed martial arts skill champion in Canada.
How she managed to succeed in a contest of courage, intelligence and strength in the town of the white?
Still in the Philippines as Jojo, just like to face the challenge.
Then, she could already feel the's fondness for martial arts skill, so when it arrived in America, she immediately tried to study taekwondo along with the studies in school there started to change the direction of his life.
It seems like he was one of the bully at first, but because of the taekwondo, taught him the discipline, perseverance and heavy work.
Not stop as Jojo training and collection of knowledge, he studied the other kinds of martial arts skill like judo and jujitsu.
That's why when she joined the competition, he napagtatagumpayan every challenge.
In the year 1987 until 1994, he tinagurian undefeated Illinois state champion because he always won in the contest that his sinasalihan.
1993, when he claimed his very first national medal.
After his win and success inside the ring, as Jojo decided to share to his knowledge in martial arts skill for those who want to learn.
He said of a martial arts skill school- the Power Kicks.
The income from teaching here is the money he'y while she was studying in college, because aside from his desire to martial arts skill, he also dreams of becoming a police who dream that he when he was still a child.
Even if many are suspicious and on to his ability, he continued reaching here.
"Last reporting Process me in pagpu-Police, a lot of people nagda-doubt.
You're too short, you're not gonna pass the test.
"The physical n'yan" "is that, his statement.
Physical test, psychological test and medical test - some "that in the way he needed to and pass by Jojo to be a police.
"Examination was really tough, so I knew when I have to take the test I trained harder to make sure that I would pass" IT, he said that when I ask how he pinagtagumpayan.
A champion, instructor and Police - "that is Jojo James Sta-Gen.
Perhaps a question playing in your mind - what he success this?
"Here is the answer:" Don't be lazy, always do something.
You have to be productive.
Not just block block you, you have to plan ahead.



