
You Ramon: Communists, a hero of the farmer

The Bayan May 21, 2012

Not only a few passed the nagluksa Ka Ramon last September 1, 2011 at the age of 46.
Cry the hundreds of farmers in their flock and the kanugnog to flock, the Pulang warriors and kadre of PKP.
Stop all of his burial to gave rebolusyonaryong tribute.

Ka Ramon, is one of those who served as a leader of the Partido insist on the branch of the Philippines in a barrios in Northern Samar.
He is one of those mayabong that caused the root of the Partido in fat land of the countryside.

Though from the kind of rich farmer, Ka Ramon, nasabak in difficult task in the production of the land.
When he became a member of the Partido, he strictly nagpanibagong-shape and the entire wholeheartedly accepted the principle of the Partido insist.
In his humble but he was still determined and militant style and defense.
He caring for those being oppressed and was.

Always dominates the essence of the Partido in any issues faced by Ka Ramon.
He brightly she showed the right pagkamakasarili.
Though to be hit the interest of their family in pagpababa the rent on land in rice paddies and coconuts and even in pagpapataas the salary of the workers farm, not only a doubt, Ka Ramon in the advancement of the campaign and for being a model in the implementation of the pinagkaisahang policy.
He patiently pinaliwanagan and kinumbinse his wife and relatives in pagkamakatarungan and kawastuan of policy.

Not finally in school, Ka Ramon childhood.
When he has to learn how to read and write at the school pangliterasiya led by BHB.
In spite of the limitasyon in reading and writing, she quickly nagagap the a basic principle of the Partido and your hugged her tight.
The deeper understanding on the principle of his people and his makauri.

He started to take action in their flock in the teenage boy only.
At the age of 15, join the youth Makabayan.
Since then, the life of Ka Ramon the rebolusyonaryong movement.
He is participating in the pakikibakang antipyudal and became one of the primary tagapagpakilos in their flock.

Later on, he became a member of the Partido.
He is thorough participating in the study and nagpunyaging top his awareness and knowledge for pagrerebolusyon.
It did not take long and he was one of the leader of the branches of the Partido in their flock.
He was elected to the administration of the Section of the Partido that sumasaklaw in a cluster of barrios.
In time with the presence of the pasistang soldiers in their place, he pumapaloob BHB and giving service as Pulang warriors.

Never weakening the stand of Ka Ramon for the revolution, even if his body weakened started in 2009 because of cancer.
Always on his mind was the interest of the movement, the condition of the task and the welfare of the part of their branches.
Even if he was just finished his surgery, he nagpilit makatawag in his kakolektibo to inform her condition and pawiin the concern of others.
He wants to make sure that they continue to in their kolektibo and good nasasalo the susing task entrusted to them by the Partido.

In the fighting for his life, Ka Ramon, he was repeatedly itinagubilin and ikinintal in awareness of his wife and five children will always be united respond and trust in rebolusyonaryong movement.
He warned each one who continued to fulfill their rebolusyonaryong tasks.

The life of Ka Ramon designated for others and not just for his own family will remain to be seen as an inspiration to the farmers his served.
His memory will serve as tanglaw for all of being oppressed and was.



