
Civilians were wrong was arrested by the AFP, and inuusig tinagurian leader of the NDFP

Partido insist departments for the information of the Philippines, October 11, 2012

The original Statement:

AFP mistakenly arrests civilian, labels him going to the persecutes NDFP Leader

Tinutuligsa of the Partido insist of the Philippines (PKP) the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in illegal arrest of Rolly M. Panesa based on the wrong identity and in violation of his desired civilians, in the wrong pagtukoy to him that one of the konsultant of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) in the peace talks and in the filing of made gawang pagtakpan rebellion case for the failure.

Around 11: 30 n.g. last October 5, kidnapped by the joint units of the 2nd ID of the AFP, agency in paniktik of the military and other't other units of the AFP and the Philippine National Police (PNP), Panesa with his wife, Maritez Chioco, the son Si Conierey and his wife in front of the Ministop a convenience store in the corner of Aurora Boulevard and Anonas Street in Quezon City.

He Kinapanayam of the lawyer of the National Union of People's lawyers (NUPL), introduced himself as Panesa, 48-year-old, who was a guard of Megaforce Security assigned to the ACP Compound in Eastwood, Quezon City.
He lives in F. Castillo Street, Project 4, according to Q.C. Panesa, he does not know any case or mandameyento de arrest against him.

"Pagtakpan for the big mistake, by Maj. Gen Alan Luga, Commander of the Southern Luzon Command of the AFP, in a statement, that is Panesa is' Benjamin Mendoza 'that his referred to a leader of the movement rebolusyonaryong in Southern Tagalog.
The case was filed Panesa rebellion, "said the PKP.

Also received reports the departments for the information of the PKP in Soutern Tagalog Regional Committee referring to that konsultant of NDFP, Benjamin Mendoza, continue to gumagampan of his responsibility and duty to the NDFP, especially in the peace talks.

The PKP "criticized the AFP in illegal arrest of Panesa and it shows support for him to release an'y and give damage in serious inhustisya and violation of the right to him and his family.
Further supported by the PKP the request to revoke the everyone made gawang ipinaratang "case for him.

According to the PKP, the failure of the military in relation to Panesa is naglalantad again to fully pagbalewala of regime Aquino in Joint Agreement on Safety the immunity Guarantees (JASIG) and the lack of serious intention this respect the other existing agreement and followed the obligation to this, according to the PKP ".
"Further nagpapatingkad this to the lack of pagdetine-lacking in a dozen the konsultant of NDFP including Alan Jazmines, Tirso Alcantara, Renante Gamara, Eduardo Serrano, Eduardo Sarmiento and Jaime Soledad, many'y arrested under the regime Arroyo.



