
Edwin Nazarionda, active intelligence asset of the 9th IDPA, pinarusahan of death

You Ramona Caceres Eduardo Olbara Command, NPA-Camarines Sur October 6, 2014

Successful isinakatuparan of a Tim of BHB-Eduardo Olbara Command the decision of hukumang town death to Edwin Nazarionda alias Marjori.
The death penalty is given last October 3, 2014, it was around 6: 45 in the evening at the very front of Battalion HQ of the 42nd IBPA in Mabaludbalod, Tigaon, Camarines Sur, where he lives.
Edwin is Nazarionda became spy of the 42nd IBPA and active intelligence asset of the 9th IDPA.
Included in those who are proven to be the case of Edwin Nazarionda against rebolusyonaryong movement and the people following:

1.
The eespiya -

> June 1, 2005 - while was inserted in a organisasyong masses in Brgy.
Idbak, Buhi, Camarines, Sur, she pointed at the military a units of BHB that temporarily nakahimpil in Brgy.
Kaubasan, Buhi, Camarines Sur.
In this fight, died a companion.

> August 6, 2006 - as a spy in the enemy in a units of BHB operating in the town of Buhi, ipinahuli in the five included in the 42nd IBPA sityo Umlungan, Brgy.
Makaangay, Buhi, Camarines Sur.

2.
Was able to go out as Edwin Nazarionda in rebolusyonaryong movement, she pointed at the enemy troops of the members of the organisasyong masses in the town of Bula, branches, Ocampo and Iriga City from in 2007.

Binabaluktot of the 9th IDPA the data of pagpresenta to Edwin Nazarionda as the alleged'y "rebel returnee" pinagsasalita and active in the SOT / PDT to sow black propaganda against rebolusyonaryong movement.
Am making it clear of Eduardo Olbara Command in the beginning, spy, Nazarionda of the AFP with misyong enter the rebolusyonaryong movement.

They conducted the Special operation against Nazarionda in spite of a big danger that it is possible to face the operatives of the NPA.
In the process of paggawad sanctioned to Nazarionda, were injured when a CAFGUs fought it.

In relation to this, also ipinapaabot of Eduardo Olbara Command to the people that they can expect that brave face of the NPA the hindrance to give justice to the crime of the pusakal that an enemy of the people.

Long live the New Hukbong Bayan!
Long live the Filipino people!



