
NPA in Nueva Ecija, attack.
The camp of 81IB and CAFGU, showered with bullets

You Alexander Guerrero Provincial Operational Command, NPA-Nueva Ecija 16 March 2012 again attack the commando unit this's New People's Army (NPA) in a CAFGU Patrol Base in Brgy.Burgos, Carranglan, Nueva Ecija on the night of March 15.
Nakahimpil there were more than a iskwad of 81IB that serves as tactical Command Post (TCP) it every time they naglulunsad regular combat operations in the area.

They binulabog consecutive the explosion of the M203 and rifle grenades inside their camp, aside from the sudden outbursts of the gunshots from the high-caliber gun.
Because of the surprise, they did not was of gunfire until finally were the operatives.

This is part of the campaign to singilin the 81IB in the killing of four people with this last March 9 in Brgy.Digmala, Bongabon, Nueva Ecija.
They had a fight and is sent out from still nakakumpiska those gun to pagtakpan their crime and brutalidad.

This is also the response of the people against the impending kick out and extensive pangangamkam of land where the former Hacienda Bueno, and the community of the native Igorot at the boundary of Nueva Ecija and Nueva Viscaya because there idaraaan the private Expressway enter the Cagayan Valley region.
Was there, they emphatically protested against the plan to the entry of the companies in the mining because of the danger and damage stem from his life, livelihood, and the surroundings.

Like the past campaign and military troops of the enemy that naghasik of terrorism in our province, she needs to be full expose and fight the mapanlinlang and violent characteristic of Oplan Unity and 81IB as the paid instrument of the foreigners and local naghaharing-kind.
We do everything to be responsible in their lengthening list of the crime to the people.

We do not expect a justice and real prosperity in almost two years when the regime pambubuladas US-Aquino to the people.
Develop and strengthen the launch of others't different shapes and way of nagkakaisang fighting towards a totally free, progressive, fair, and peaceful society number number number.



