
Passport extension of the ceasefire in the island of Negros

Komiteng Rehiyon of the island of Negros Partido insist the Philippines November 25, 2013

Ipinapaabot of Komiteng Rehiyon of Negros the passport extension of the ceasefire in the island of Negros.
Magkakabisa the ceasefire from today until 2359 hours of December 24, according to the Partido insist atas of the Philippines.
It is the purpose of the passport extension of the ceasefire, the turnover of the additional time to the humanitarian task to relief and rehabilitation in Cadiz City, Sagay City, Escalante City and around in the municipality and the island that extreme devastated by typhoon Yolanda.

The units of BHB and milisyang town in said area should be stopped in the launch of the opensibong operation and help to the victims of the typhoon Yolanda.
However, you should be careful and implement the modang active defense against the attack of the AFP-PNP.
Mapupulutan lessons the encounter in Kabankalan City last November 16.
Will ensure the units of BHB, local branches of the Partido, organisasyong masses and organs of powers politics organized and safe makapapasok the local and international that relief organizatios and agencies, personaheng medical, personality in agriculture, and others who are ready to help the victims.
Oorganisahin continued to the victims of the typhoon Yolanda for the implementation of the relief, rehabilitation and for the struggle for their welfare and livelihood.

The area in Negros not severely affected by the typhoon Yolanda, should launch of activities that will help to those severely affected.
The progresibong pwersang based in the city, town and white localities continue to gagampan of operations relief and rehabilitation.
They continue to will persevere to makapagpalitaw of the rekurso for the needs of the victims of the typhoon Yolanda.

There are indikasyong to be used by the corrupt politicians to the accident makakurakot of funds in the middle of the legal success against PDAF.
Declared in "stae of calamity" the Negros Occidental even if it is clear that the hilangang only part of the island is severely affected by the typhoon Yolanda.
Should be vigilant the progresibong forces who fought in all forms of pagmamaniobra and stealing and to give the people the right to go to them.
The salantang brought about by the typhoon Yolanda in the citizens of Negros is not kasintindi caused by the salantang in Tacloban and surrounding it coupled by storm surge.
That is why it is right to help the citizens of Negros to the people more were severely devastated by typhoon Yolanda.
If there is nagbakwit from other places, you should prepare the baseng masses in the island of Negros and in the process is ikoordina in the local organs of powers politics and the organisasyong masses the pagtamasa of the nagbakwit of livelihood through farming.



