Credibility of the elections 2013, kuwestiyonable?

Broken PCOS machines.
Long lines.
Missing name on the official list of voters.
Missing signal.
Wrong-wrong quick counts.
This is the scene of the election yesterday, May 13.
Not included here are incidents of violence, harassment, and other irregularities, from the election until the closure of the election, sending the results of the votes in a precinct until the canvassing of the Commission on Elections (Comelec) in the local and national level.
Nasaklawang in some areas in Metro Manila and nearby towns, the istap and the volunteer of the Weekly this problem.
On Twitter feed from hashtag that number PWvote2013, we also reported the pagmonitor of independiyenteng election watchdogs like Automated Election System Watch (bahalasitulfo AESWatch: PH), Kontra dice (bahalasitulfo kontradaya) and the National Movement for free Elections (bahalasitulfo Namfrel), as well as the report of the other members of the alternative media like Bulatlat.com, Tudla, Kodao, Davao Today, and others.

Also entered the provinces in the report of the independiyenteng the group who watch over him in the election.
Through the report that it can show the appearance of the election that is heavily tainted with irregularities and problem.
More than one hour after the elections, inanunsiyo closed the Parish Pastoral Council for responsible voting (PPCRV), official citizen arm of the Comelec in the election, the Partial the unofficial results from the 1,418 precinct.
The outcome, he saw the gathered more than 14 million votes of the candidates for senator with the highest votes, Grace Poe.
Immediately the reaction of the election watchdogs, specified the statistical improbability of having a more than 14 million votes.
"(T) he PPCRV-KBP transparency server flashed on national television, numerically improbable total of around 10 million votes for the Top senatorial spot while reporting only a total of 1,418 precincts.
The error is significant, is going to be a maximum of 1,000 voters should only yield Precinct of a total of around 1,418,000 maximum votes, "statement of Kontra dice.
Taken back by the PPCRV such as, and said that she had a formatting error was only, and was said to be a problem.
Reported by Kontra dice that also fixed immediately of Smartmatic the source code in the part they as a response to the release of a very large vote that is not realistic.
Adjust when the votes; approximately 4.8 million votes is said to have been taken by Poe after the Adjustment.
But it is not enough to explain the PPCRV how to get the figure.
It can be recalled that what happened to them last elections in 2010, when it reached a point that up to 153 million the total registered voters in the canvassing server - more than the population in the Philippines before.
Was quickly fixed the source of Smartmatic code.
Suspicious for Kontra dice the sudden fixing Smartmatic in the source code used for processing were confiscated and the counting of the votes.
According to them, the Smartmatic nakakapangambang akses in source code, and this is new can change the source code.
In spite of the lack of the real source code review of the canvassing the consolidation server (CCS).
"(T) he Public Can never know what Smartmatic's system for tallying votes really is the canvassing.
IT Can also appears that they change the source code on the spot, which makes the Whole election system, the questionable problematic exercise, "said the Kontra dice.

Meanwhile, adding of paghihinala the presensisya of an official of Smartmatic in the data center by the PPCRV the Pope Pius Center in Manila before the wrong tally in the afternoon of May 13, said the AES Watch.
Ernie said del Rosario, IT be experts of AES Watch and former IT director of the Comelec nakababahala, that the presence in the afternoon when it comes to the PPCRV of Albert Castro Rico, global services direct of Smartmatic in Asia Pacific Ocean.
He allegedly was also the project manager of foreign technology supplier in automated elections in Autonomous Region for Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) in 2008, and one of the signed contract for the poll automation between the Comelec and Smartmatic.
Seconded by Nelson Celis, Co-convenor of AES Watch and former president of the Philippine finished computer Society, Del Rosario.
He said, "Smartmatic has no business dealing with a citizens" arm that should exercise Independence especially from a foreigner.
Mr. Castro should explain what he was doing "there.
"There is no other reason why I know Smartmatic's Top operations even was and the PPCRV server - PPCRV is using Smartmatic's CCS (consolidated canvassing system)?" Also said by Celis.
Del Rosario said that any interbensiyon of a foreign company in the operation of the civic arm of the Comelec in the election is suspicious and should be a serious investigation.
Del Rosario, former leader of the Comelec a technical problem was working Group in Poll Automation in 2008 who resigned due to the officials of the Comelec pagkakasunduo about istandard of the quality of the automated elections that should be implemented.
In a press conference by the PPCRV today, Henrietta de Villa by the PPCRV that should not be the issue the presence of Rico of Smartmatic in their data center.
It should be there is really Smartmatic to observe the process.
It was said by Ana de Villa Singson, media director of the PPCRV, who also can be found in the data center their transparency server of Smartmatic.
In the report of midya and in the statement by the PPCRV, it is as if they are saying that they should not be the issue is the problem in the wrong tally.
The Comelec "" tiny fraction of the 78,000 PCOS machines in the same number of polling precincts were destroyed.
COMELEC Chair Sixto Brillantes said that she is also up to 200 were destroyed.
But mahihinuha witnessed the scene of the Filipinos Weekly, the election watchdog groups and even more than that of midya "tiny fraction" the problem of the recently-only election.



