Cojuangco kinasahan of Araneta By Ramil Cruz October 21, 2016, did it is surprising there is one will have the courage to declare when challenge to incumbent Philippine Olympic Committee (POC) President Jose "" Peping Cojuangco in the election in panguluhan in November 25.
He is the Philippine Football Federation (PFF) President Mariano "Nonong" Araneta, who stated that will run for presidency when the highest private organization in sports in the country, according to a reliable source yesterday.
They tried to take the side of Araneta but she had no answer while writing this news.
Is set to be submitted by Araneta, in his Second term as President PFF, his candidacy in the next week for the quadrennial POC polls that there is still no venue in Metro Manila.
In the still wanted to run for the 1st and 2nd vice-president, treasurer, auditor and four board of director or member, there until October 30 to submit the intention.
Appointed only the president the Secretary General.
In kaagahan of submitting candidacies since the second week of the current month, there is no nagpasabi that she will fight to Cojuangco that dreaming of makuna the fourth conglomeration of four-Year term first since he sat on the position war'ng 2004 against Celso Dayrit of fencing.
Won a vote in his sure-election, Cojuangco against the deceased Arturo Macapagal of the shooting in 2008 at his minaniobra many national sports associations (NSAs).
There is no kumasa to Coajuangco war'ng 2012 when deciding the 3-even POC Comelec, former Congressman Victorico Chavez, Richard Palou and Br.
Bernard Oca to disqualify former Philippine Athletics Track & Field Association (PATAFA) and Philippine Karatedo Federation (PKF) President Go Teng Kok that dineklarang Mejorada as persona non grata of POC executive committee and Israel to General Assembly led by Cojuangco.
The plan of the former National Football Team Captain Araneta, if he wins, to strengthen the all NSAs in umbrella of POC.
Sat on the businessman and members of the Asian Football Confederation executive committee, in PFF last 2010 after he won the election as a replacement of the deceased, Jose Mari Martinez.



