
The RH bill and doctors versus God

When minadaling to finish the RH bill in Bicameral Conference Committee or Bicam of the Congress, any day will be the law that the proposal.
That is if "pipirmahan immediately of President Noynoy Aquino, the proposed law.
Bicam, the relationship of the congressman and senator magpaplantsa of any problem or insane in the version of the Congress and Senate.
Usually prevail or will be effective the law 15 days after it has been published in the official Gazette or pahayagang and if there is a national where there have been laid Implementing Rules and Regulations.
There is a law that it was a long time before overtaking due to lack of IRR bars.
MADIDISKARIL but there is a plan might be the anti-RH bill to stop the preservation or implementation of the law through paghiling Temporary Restraining Order of against it.
With the petition that the Supreme Court is the law in other't like other because of its violation of the Constitution or other the existing law.
If accommodate long term TRO and decision of the Supreme Court is the request for laps of the anti-RH bill, no one knows how long.
If you maalaala, the Anti-Cyber Crime Law was sentenced with six-month-old TRO.
It can stand up to have the laps of the final decision of the Court.
If this will happen, nine-nine will await the law before he maimplementa.
"That is if the court will favor the RH bill.
Nine-nine the implementation because of the long time of the Court in making a decision.
Papantay might be the time of making decisions in making a decision on the Vizconde massacre that lasted almost 20 years from the regional trial court up to the Supreme Court.
Widespread change if mapairal when the law, there will be immediately of the widespread change.
Especially on having children.
Based on the words of the pro-RH, because of the number of the condom, pills, IUD or intrauterine device and other pamigil pregnancy to spread in the barangay, there will be immediately kabawasan of the pregnant woman who was walking in the streets.
Because of the government to make plans to free the distribution of the company using against pregnancy.
Especially in the ranks of the poor families who is said to be "entertainment that the work of the child".
Hehehe!
Ligation and vasectomy might even have a widespread campaign for the vasectomy and ligation like what during martial law.
The man was not makabubuntis through vasectomy because of the cutting or pagtali of where the his sperm.
The woman who is also not mabubuntis pinutulan or bound by the sperm.
Even if there is a news that there is a natepok because of the vasectomy and ligation.
We maalaala that there is a reward to 50 pesos for every patient whichever makapagdadala of sasailalim in vasectomy and ligation.
One of the Lord is not popular to immediately change the belief in the pregnancy.
The day will not popular the word "the Lord wants" or "God" out of the pregnancy or not "pregnancy.
All that was deliberately and the lord knows that, the body.
Itatakda that the couple boypren or the couple their having a child and number of them.
They need to consulting or pray to God to have a baby or not.
Doctor against God more epektib the doctors, nurse, midwife and pharmacist that consultant and pagdasalan than God on this issue.
Ikakatwirang of many, it is not answering the God if this kinakausag.
If the beacon of God that the priest and nuns were kokunsultahin, there may be no mapapala the a partner because the wife and child when the priests and nuns, against them in the RH.
Hehehe!
Maybe all the confession and pagrorosaryo ituturo and ipagagawa to them, they said.
It is scary Alam do you a lot of the house now that there is a hidden condom?
It would still the condom and other pamigil pregnancy in the preservation of the laws.
And not only the couple and aging will they learn to use it.
The children in their rather, birthday is the wolves attacked the condom.
But how big of them and coming in the age of courting, nakupo, many will eeksperimento. in sex.
And they will have a confidence that maglihim in their parents because, there will be no matter where they are using in safe sex.
If they will say that it is no raincoats.
That magkagewang-gewang the lives of the youth.
ABORSYON Pag, there is a need to combat child and is not ready for the youth "" responsible parenthood, you are looking for the that of aborsyon.
There is the answer to the RH here?



