Wednesday, August 07, 2013

True Filipinos

Don't let your wound be replaced with a personality that are not you.

There is a sorrow in life, and there are defeat.
Anyone who cannot be avoided.
But it is much better to lose some of the fight of the struggle for your dreams, instead of being talunan when he had no knowledge of what the are fighting for you.

To believe your own path, there is no need to prove that the choosing of others.

There is no issue here in the world achieved without reason: Bawa't things need to learn thoroughly and punyagi.
The people who nagnanasa knowledge is needed to someone like a soldier pagsisikhay going to war: Who are purely that matining, there is no fear, pure loyalty and have complete trust in yourself.

If he will follow the tagubiling this without a doubt, there is a loss that he will never but he is not maghihinagpis in his fate.
But he is free to pursue it is seen that there is hope.
This is the courage of the true Filipinos.

The difference between the real Filipinos in the ordinary Filipino

Pambihira his present: Don't know the true Filipinos how the wait, because he talos what her are waiting for.
While waiting for him, he did not expect, to walk in this, whatever his accept - even if only karampot - is a blessing.
The common Filipinos are great nababalisa about love to others, or love of others.
The true Filipinos, don't know what he wants to - it is all in his life and where he are now focusing their energies on him all his strength.

The common Filipinos are inaaksaya the present in the performance as a win or lose,, and this'y appropriate for the result if he will be prosecutor or victims.
Many of them are direct you learned that the lack of hope.

The true Filipinos, on the other hand, are aalaala only about his actions, where she is sent in his goal that he patiently tinatalunton for himself.
He has no kinikilingan or follow the advice of others, but his own stand.

The true Filipinos but the intention is: This is not a mind, a thing, or a in.
This is the it creates a person to succeed in his goal and raising him from his position even if he is often tripped.
Trying to recover and it became stronger to face the challenges that inihahalang on his way.
The intention to wake up and gives him the direction to continue.

He was always the last fight: The isipirito of true Filipinos are not madaing and mapanisi in any things or events, because he was not born to be able to win or fail.
He was born to makibaka, and in bawa't fight will end that he will end here in the world.
That is why the't bawa't true Filipinos are always left, and if he can ispirito iniaalay his bravery to fight, he talos his intention is hayagan, tumatawa and nalulugod to himself.

In the ordinary Filipino the intention is hiding: Always there is doubt, uncertainty and will keep changing.

Often than not do not finish any have started.
Always waiting and hoping that will help in his anxiety.
Pinagtutuonan more attention is no katuturan, mausisa, and vigilant in what you are doing.

Do not care about the events: While there lugaw and piece of its roof, the taking will take care of it.
Even if they are in and institutions that the corruption and corruption in the nation's wealth in all levels of society, umid the remains, blind and deaf, the eyes of the karaingang rules in the country.
Direct, she was sleeping, and nagtutulog-on.

Are you, including the real Filipino or ordinary Filipino?



