The challenge of the PKP in the tagapagtaguyod of HR / IHL, protest against the widespread campaign of the bombing of the AFP

Departments for the information of the Philippines Partido insist on December 10, 2013 remembered the Partido insist of the Philippines (PKP) is the 65 anniversary of the general Deklarasyon about the human person through the call for all the tagapagtaguyod and lawyer of the human person and the international law and humane to fight the campaign of the regime pambobombang Aquino and aramdong force that pumipinsala in the properties of the masses and agrikultural that means of livelihood, nagsasapanganib in the life of the masses and causes severe sikolohikal that trauma to the residents.

"Serious violation of the human person and humane international law is no-patumanggang bombing launched the AFP under the gerang mapanupil Oplan Unity this, according to the PKP".
"Pretending to be sure that the regime ipnamamaraling itinataguyod Aquino in the peace and human people while he was making malalalang abuse and brutalidad" to the people.
Pananawagan for a campaign to fight the operations bombing of the AFP, the PKP did the pambobombang of the AFP last November 18, 21, 23, December 4 and December 6 in Davao del Norte and Compostela Valley.
Last November 18, at 6: 30, naghulog boma n.u. of the 66th Infantry Battalion in Barangay Mahayahay, Maragusan, Compostela Valley.
This is the whole day Sinunday istraping nagpwersa that the residents of the barrios to leave their homes.

At 10: 30 of November 21, binomba of the AFP Sityo Bunlang and other community in Davao del Norte using a 105mm howitzer that kanyong.
He was followed by that of the bomb of milligram-520 that helikopter around 4 n.h. in the northern part of the Davao and the town of Maco.
Last November 23, was used by the AFP almost two milligram-520 so that the helikopter maghulog a bomb in kabukiran of the Barangay Elizalde, Teresa and New Barili in Maco, Compostela Valley.
Last December 4, at around 9: 30, the AFP is n.u. binomba Sityo Lim aw and Sityo Gakub in Barangay Teresa, Maco of 105mm howitzer that kanyong nagpwersa that the farmers to evacuate.
Last December 6, naghulog of the bomb the milligram-520 helikopter in Sityo Binagyuhan and Sityo Barabay in Barangay Malamudao Sityo and in San Vicente of Barangay New Barili in Maco.

"In their desperasyong kamtin their imbing hope to crush the BHB in 2013 and in the launch of gera against rebolusyonaryong baseng masses, led the AFP for the brutal use of the bombing from himpapawid and other ways of the incessant attacks on civilians, according to the PKP".

Before this, last August 29-30,, the AFP of the widespread bombing from himpapawid in Mountain Province that sumira in the field, the indigenous system of irrigation and the surroundings in the barangays of Sagada and part of Bontoc.
Last May, another bombing launched the AFP in the town of Malibcong, Abra.
Resulted the when the bombing in severe sikolohikal that trauma to the children.

"In the past three years, reveal the Oplan Unity of Aquino that he has no different from the first to the campaign military like Oplan Bantay Laya I and II of Arroyo," insisted that the PKP.

"Continue to disappear, who are the reaksyunaryong armed forces, the police and the organisasyong paramilitar the human person tumatarget in the poor community where fight back to the people and the protesters fight on the mistreated and opportunistic system, according to the PKP".

"Continuously conducting the armed forces of Aquino of ekstrahudisyal murders.
Last December 6, a few days before the Independence of the human person, was killed by ooperasyong troops of 1001st DRC and of the 71st IB, Pedro Tinga of Barangay Malamudao, in the town of the Maco, "insisted that the PKP.

"As a violation of the provisions of the Comprehensive Agreement on Respect for Human Rights the International humanitarian Law (CARHRIHL), that the regime ipinipiit Aquino is not less than 400 political prisoners who, including 13 konsultant of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) in the peace talks," PKP added.
The "hambog insisting that Aquino that the idetine konsultant of NDFP in the peace talks is further who violate the Joint Agreement on Safety the immunity Guarantees (JASIG humahadlang) in the continuation of the formal negosasyong talks between the gubyernong Aquino and the NDFP".



