
Paghahabol of 41st IBPA and 503rd Brigade of the target of the Oplan Unity, has disappointed a lot of rebolusyonaryong movement in North Abra

Diego Wadagan Agustin Begnalen Command - NPA Abra June 3, 2013

Too desperate to the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) to achieve the set their target of Oplan Unity (OpB) for the 2013 said to destroy the rebolusyonaryong'y movement.
This is the reason why they are doing all the way to chase it.
Among these are the pagtatakip in the kaswalti of the operation, they failed in their excuse the violation of human rights, and the launching of the made gawang fight.

Just this May 30, three were killed while there is not sure that the number of those who were wounded forces of the 41st IB when an encounter with this is a units of the NPA in Malibcong, Abra.
After the series of the two fight, they attacked the Bulang, Duldulao, Malibcong and pinagbobomba it.
They is sent out from a fight is what happened here where a NPA were killed and they got a M16.
They also emphatically denying they had a kaswalti.
It is clear that the failure of the attack is trying to excuse and proud denied Brig. Gen. Hernando Irreberi, the Commander of the 503rd Brigade.

Successive the violation of human rights by ooperasyong force of the 41st IB were recorded by the citizens of Malibcong.
Some of them the prohibition to the citizens of Duldulao and Gacab who went to their farm.
Even the students that the Balbalasang rin.Nagsampa, Kalinga are afraid of the case to the people of Bangilo, Malibcong in relation to the uncontrolled bombing in their field and close to the houses, since May 31.
It seems that hangal nagpapalusot, Captain Limbao, the spokesperson of the 41st IB, when he was surprised and not just ""-warshock that the young women was when the bomb nasabugan, and when he did not say that they used a bomb but" rocket launcher with flesh that white phosphorus, "in simpler terms, a rocket bomb.
Also said by Captain Limbao, "Precision attacks" that their use of the rockets't; that's why it means that they intentionally pinsalain the field of the people and the spread of fear and terror.

In addition to this in the violation recorded in the past few months.
Included here are threats to the leaders and members of the legal organization that those opposing the doing their Peace and Development Team (PDT) and the entry of Large scale Mining.
Like they suporter of the NPA and weak-haras like what they did to John Bandril when they surrounded his house while nagkakasa of the gun.

Part of the operation of the military 41st IB in the construction of the detatsment in Poblacion Malibcong.
The construction of detatsment is part of the implementation of the duty of the AFP as investment security force.
They serves as the pwersang panseguridad of the big company of mine and other businessmen who want to go to the interyor areas in Cordillera and other regions.

The hakbanging this will surely be disappointed by the campaign of the dumadagundongna masses and the taktikal offensive by the NPA.
And object to fight the violation of human rights violation of the AFP!

Protest against the construction of the detatstment in Malibcong!
Fight the Large scale Mining!
Upset Oplan Unity!
And went to strengthen the NPA towards Estratehikong Pagpapatas!



