
The lessons in every challenge, challenge in BUHAY

In every challenge and challenges of life, there are lessons that will get there.
Just like what happened to our fellow countrymen in Zamboanga City after daluhungin of the MNLF rebels, was damaged by the flood.
In spite of the incident, surface and again nagtumingkad the strength, pagkamaawain and Unity of the Filipinos.
In the name of pagpapanumbalik of order and peace and according to the Philippine Defense Forum is going to be and 28 SSeptember 2013, there is a total of 18 soldiers and five police gave their lives in more or less 20 encounter.
Meanwhile, 169 14 soldiers and policemen were wounded.
Different story of heroism and sacrifice our heard.
An example is the only to Army 1st Lieutenant.
Francis Damian and Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Jose Audrey Banares, who are both included in those who died.
Supposedly scheduled to take a vacation, 1st Lieutenant.
The recent Damian because of his Airborne course but he was the volunteer to go with operations in Zamboanga City.
PO 2 Banares is scheduled to go home on R & R to his family but he decided to stay in his units and they can participate in the Navy Special operations.
When he found out of the Zamboangeño that it is necessary to cook food the soldiers and police while fighting, "nagdalawang did not mind was the first to be prepared for the much-wrapped the food.
Some of them, the other ipinamamahagi yaon in the forces of the government.
With the excessive number, needed to be given to the schedule pamimigay mapanis so as not to the food.
Even reported dead Lola Norma Lladores that nasabugan of mortar in his home while cooking breakfast for the soldiers.
Is it flooded the relief goods to the Philippine Navy that pinasan-!! Carrying the soldiers going up the BRP Benguet (LT 507).
I hope that will drive only those if not because of the onslaught of typhoon "Odette" in Northern Luzon.
One another down the relief goods to in Zamboanga and ikinarga the help for the Batanes.
After the mission in Batanes, also pushed through the ship going to Zamboanga City.
Aside from relief goods and medical help, nagbayanihan others't other agencies of the government for the stress debriefing, especially the children in evacuation centers.
The cooperation of the DSWD, issued a movie fun and cartoons the Navy Civil Military Operations Unit-Western Mindanao for several consecutive night is ikinagalak in evacuation centers-young or old.
Nagdaos of Football for Peace clinic the members of the Philippine Marine Corps for the kabataangbabae and man evacuees in Zamboanga State Polytechnic College.
What else and in spite of the fact that down and some are still a big part of the Zamboanga City, a lesson that we showcased in the whole world the pagkakapit arms, strength and helping that it's natural for the Filipino, especially in the time of calamity.
A lesson also considered the readiness in the ranks of the soldiers and police who are isuong himself in danger even if they have a chance to avoid.
Lesson also considered the needs of the additional readiness and skills of our government to ease, but even prevent, these kinds of pangayayari in any part of the country.
I just hope that, he cannot forget the said that some of the lessons that he should basis of the appropriate steps in the future.



