The brain of a bombing in "land promise"

In consecutive "bombing" in Mindanao last week, the mapaglarong imagination of some of our fellow citizens.
There are speculations that the one responsible for it, Napoles or allies in the government.
To be put away the media the issue from 10 billion peso scandal that is currently pinagpipiyestahan of the people.
In the money, konek in the government and experience of the former military officer who is the wife of Napoles, what can we... Can!
However, maybe the "too extreme" this as a solution to their problems!
There are also speculations that this is also a kind of destabilization, not for the seat of PNoy is like the chaos during the time of his mother, but only dulutan of nonstop shaking his service.
So if not makaporma for 2016 was the chicken of the palace, Mar Roxas, the mamamayagpag triumvirate of Binay, Erap and Enrile!
Hmmm, Enrile?
Can you, it looks like there is mixed "" paranoia, maybe this espikulasyon!
Hehehe.
Just a moment parekoy, is it not "" justification of Angkol Sam du'n in their first warning against terrorism that caused the pagsarado of many of their embassy in the entire world?
"Can, but only if there is a deep one step that you are cooking, aydol Barrack Obama and his CIA!
Also had a suspicion that the eruption that MNLF Chairman Nur Misuari because he will lose is if he will let the "peace talks agreement" of the government and the group MILF.
Can!
But, masisikmura is of Nur that many innocent civilians were to die and get hurt because of pride or ambition in space?
Can?
Oh yes parekoy, isn't it't admitted that the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighter were killed or BIFF is one of the bombahan?
Hmmm, it's only hold the words his Ameril Umbra Kato because the course of his brain is still hazy that more than nilamutak uhog!
Huh!
As of now parekoy, almost all of us are all espikulasyon just because we don't know.
Except opkurs in the impaktong responsible for the series of bombahan there in "" land promise.
But one thing is for sure, there are few demon benefit from this of what they did!
They Tangna!
Anyone you, you stop "that is okay!
PNoy is still might be ill-tempered and I to declare martial law!
D'yan that we all magkakahetot-hetot!



