
Calamities and fear in Baganga

Macky Macaspac by April 30, 2013

It is difficult to go to the Baganga, Davao Oriental.
Not only because of the long and complicated trip to here from Davao City, but because of the calamity, this became the center of the devastation of typhoon Pablo, last December 2012.
And this is not yet nakakabangon until now.
Even though it is natural calamities that hit in the area, has long been niraragasa of calamity that people have made: The negligence of the government, the lack of service is severe, the presence of the military.
After visited by the typhoon Pablo, the calamity that people have made: There are allegations nakurakot should hopefully'y ipinamamahaging relief goods to the affected.
Even the temporary home of the victim, it was the overpriced fashioned.
Meanwhile, supposedly in the local government, ruled that the military.
This is what you want to know a fact-finding the humanitarian mission went to the place recently.
Riding the three bus from Davao City, taken by the misyonerong up to 76 people including the nuns, a doctor, a nurse, a psychologist, forester and other wants to help the long, difficult trip to Baganga.
Included here are members of the midya, including the Filipinos Weekly.

To Baganga at first, but the course of the bus.
I was still and asphalt is cemented the hayway.
A good and attractive is also the sight.
But while away in Davao City and is in the towns destroyed by the typhoon, changes to the scene.
Although clean the road from that were created by the typhoon, is still pinagdaan traces of this town.
Kumikislap from both sides of the haywey.
From the kislap on the roof of the house, who is carried away by a strong wind in the midst of the storm.
The new palit yerong roof.
Also Nakasalansan blocks the hollow in some itinatayong new house.
Even the crops such as banana, and fruits in abundance when, some of them were wrapped with the phony, green some wide rice field.
There is no near the haywey the victim nakasahod the hand in asking for help.
Afterwards, but it was discovered'y we: Is still there, they are in their community, in poverty.
Away, slowly napapalitan the glitter of the the iron haywey.
It was replaced with the hope of the color-white tolda.
This Tolda ipanamahagi of the organization and the roof of the residents.
There are a lot of use of the old tarpaulins as the roof and wall.
Nakahilera are still tent City in some towns affected by the group.
As well as, many are still in the tree fell down, especially the coconut trees.
These are still on the side of the wake and the mountains.
When the daanang Pakitid pakitid taken by three bus.
The mud Idad and dust, the road is cemented.
Slow-gewang pagewang and the course of the bus because of the potholes in the road.
This is part of Compostela Valley, kanugnog of the town of Cateel to Baganga.
This is the first ran over by a group of military detatsment.
It is not pinahinto the group, it looks like it was surprised by the soldiers in the onslaught of three bus.
The others, taking a bath at the left of the road and the others'y just sitting and standing at the right side.
"" Here, that the house burned, "said of a candidate who is a member of the group Karapatan.
The question of others: "" Will do we really?
"Footage, we are not just a photo of the house burned".
Nagmenor the bus.
That the inside of the bus their camera, and nagsipitikan.
"Andar after that, we left," said the from Rights, says that the bus maalikabok paspas even if the way.
There is no made the soldiers, they were just watching the papalayong buses.
But the one, quickly run away towards their camp that a school.
Probably reported in the "".
Continue to be taken by the three bus paliku-likong road.
Make sure that the driver did not unrelated and the difference of the bus.
Because aside from the potholes in the road, this is also the side of the cliff.
But more than two hours only passed, improve the flow of the bus, not umaalon-waves and tumatalbog-talbog, patag and is cemented that because the road but suddenly stopped the konboy of the bus.
Tsekpoint of 67th Infantry Batallion of Philippine Army.
In the town of Cateel the group, in Sityo Dispatching of Brgy.
Malibago.
"And the man," command of a military nakasukbit in the shoulder the armalayt and bandoler of bullets.
The men with the nuns and the leader of the balsa Mindanao.
The negotiations started, while one by one of a soldier climbed up the bus.
Looked at the inside of it, it is not known if there is looking for him.
Lilinga-sesame seeds only in the seat, and to the people left inside the bus.
They all soldiers, wearing full battle uniform but no nameplate.
The nuns and other negotiator the motive of the group, to Baganga and will give a relief goods and medical services, as well as that of the group isasadokumento the condition of the victims of the storm.
It lasted the negotiation.
Said the leader of the soldiers, "excuse me," job.
He added, the group will wait for their Commanding Officer and there to request that through the konboy.
One time when to pass through the group.
But before this, a emerged soldiers were accelerated away from the detatsment.
And almost 25 meters from tsekpoint palusong pakurbadang, in that way, blocked by a soldier was on motorcycle a logging truck.
The military ordered the driver of the truck ibalagbag his car on the road.
, quickly run away after going to the military was the driver of the truck, with the key.
Aside from the spread of timber in front of the truck and the small gap between the truck and the nakasalansan that timber.
The participants of the mission was forced to carry the timber and remove the stack of timber to pass through the bus.
Led the nuns in carrying; tulung-help all.
The konboy Lumarga again.
But it is not yet the trip'y greeted the chunk of rock nakahilera pahalang on the road.
It is impossible that rolled off from the mountain and humilera entering when they are on the road.
It is obvious that there is placed.
Not far from the hunch of many of the military who was riding in konboy.
The military is not yet nasapatan several again, they put the hambalang that the stones, wood on the road and, the last, dug up land, gravel and mud which was placed in the middle of the road.
The strong suspicion of many in the mission of this ginamitan backhoe truck: Heated because the engine of a backhoe parked near the heap.
Using the hands, feet and patpat, tried to remove the misyonero pile and given space even if there is a way to the bus.



