
Every day, the fear of the patient in the Philippine Orthopedic Center

Pher Pasion by the Kenneth Roland A. Guda February 1, 2013

Until the corridor of the hospital, full of poor patients the Philippine Orthopedic Center.
They fear that if isapribado finally be kicked out of the government.
(KR Guda) Labimpitung year when Mario Maniego confined in the Philippine Orthopedic Center (POC).

And he did not only the patient who back and forth in the hospital.
A day in 1996, after an operation in root stuck in the neck, Mario stayed in the POC in Quezon City.
Naratay, he can't move and kinabitan of respirator.
Because he has no money to buy respirator, he will stay in the hospital.
When he stayed in the 17 years.
The roads his feet, for a long time that is not used.
And the lives of their family, finally dumausdos.

His wife Susan Maniego, full-time guards to Mario in POC from 1996.
He said, they were not able to leave because they have no money, even if the Second-hand that respirator that nagkakahalagang P450,000.
The entire time, whether they are in the hospital.

Young patient in the POC (KR Guda) "here that we spent the whole of our life (couple).
I couldn't do anything but cry, because I do not know where they can get the spend on his daily.
"The three children, when we were separated from relatives.
I did not naalagaan as a mother.
Painful for me (this), "Susan said.

Many of them, and even nadaragdagan everyday.
Because of that dumadausdos livelihood of many people, and the lack of the system of universal health care in the Philippines, the number of dumedepende - and kumakaunting - one of the public hospital in the country.
Public hospitals that somehow'y'y free or the treatment.

They are in danger of the few public hospital that this is now - that maisapribado under the program Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) of the Aquino administration.
The first hospital that the government wants to sampolan: The Orthopedic, or POC.
Hoping for POC reached 700 patient in the daily seeking treatment in out-patient department of the hospital and in the 300 were recorded in the emergency room of POC in every day.
In 95 percent of them are poor Filipinos, according to the Alliance of Health Workers (AHW).

Aside from them, there are also like Mario, that the entire time depends on the use of respirator of POC to live.

, Rubelyn Mercurio, 25, from Tondo.
He allegedly did not of met an accident in him.
Last visited the Filipinos Weekly, recover him because of the word on the hand.
(KR Guda) in spite of this, Susan's feel the lack of budget of POC.
There is no livelihood because of the illness of her husband, she still needs to spend P500 every week, because we need to buy diaper, medicine and food outside.

Pain time he is doing laundry to the nurse in the hospital, that's why no matter how'y earning 150.
Sometimes, even if he is selling the coffee pesos is the only profit.

"Hoping that we should just to help.
I beggars.
The rasyon "naghahati food here, just the two of us.
If you have to buy porridge, "that he will not run," that is what I will eat.
Just hoping that we also really with the help of the nuns (pain time goes to the hospital).
Naghahati divided we still other patient.
If the 10, you need to cure the five who just because it is also necessary for some of the patient, "said" Susan.

Susan unconscious in brags of many politicians who medical service: For a long time that confined his wife on the POC, he did not of the politicians and agency he approached to ask for help.
Tingi-tingi, but not really given the service to the medical needs of a poor, who like Mario.

"If you don't have fare you will not be able to go.
If you go over is always they are not allow you.
You are still makakailang back then, you will get.
In the Senate, we were just able to "once said of Susan.

It reached more than 1 million their debt on the POC in respirator only.

Mario of P450,000 needs to have their own respirator to stop the paglobo of their debt.

"Susan if more will push through the privatization of POC.
Don't know that they know the system in the private hospital - there is no service if there is no payment.
They have no money, surely etsa-except for isinapribadong POC.

Entrance "just that might have to pay.
Many of the patient will be at a disadvantage if, "said of Susan.

The old facilities of POC.
They are still using the tractions in their patients that there is a problem with the bones.
(KR Guda) groan of the poor are not even naisasapribado POC, and even if the cheap or free service-medical given to this, it is the indigent in the additional expense in treatment here.

"All of us now.
In P350 the medicine and 150 are our food every day.
P200 in every day in the income of his father tricycle driver, "story of Josephine Mendoza, 53-year-old, in taking care of her granddaughter, Chrisvel, 12, that the patient in the POC.

Fell on the stairs in his school, Chrisvel and hit his the spinal column, so there is a big lump on his breast him at the back and not move.
He didn't answer of the school because he was on his way home and they do not the accident.

In the ward with POC where he was brought to the patient before an operation.
Like the other ward with in the hospital, has full of patients.
(KR Guda) "May PhilHealth me but he (Chrisvel) in the jurisdiction of this because he is just my grandchild.
So that we will approach to the politicians, "said" Josephine.

As well as the condition of Rubelyn Mercurio, 25, of Tondo, Manila that fractured his hand and nagpagamot in POC.
More than a month in the hospital and he also does not know where they can get the spend.
I stopped "" the three children who are studying since I met an accident.
Just Sidecar work of my wife and in P250 he saw everyday - not kasya pagtustos in six to our daughter, "Rubelyn says.

Napilipit the neck of Janet Henolos, 32, from Paranaque and two months in the hospital.
Two of the four children he is studying and poverty in their situation now that her husband was in the hospital.
I am nakakaraket "used to help to spend.
A welder just a great my husband is really difficult for us.
Especially the drugs in P127 every day.

The pinakamahal "P84 one.
Then the payment in caregiver that "P2,000, according to Janet.

Janet was also members of PhilHealth.
But not all of the expenses are in the jurisdiction of PhilHealth.

Last Villamor, 43, is seven months in the POC and needs of the two operation.
In debt also Emily is hoping to the expenses in the hospital.

"Difficulty and it is more difficult now.
Tricycle driver only my husband and he saw the 100 pesos per day. "The rasyon of food here, we were just divided.
Instead of buying food bought that we just "of drugs, he said.

Felt by the patient in the POC that although it is proven that the medical service to the public hospital, they still can't, the expenses for the treatment.

Lacking that broke the budget of the POC to meet their needs.

There is no room in indigent of the patient has the Orthopedic, but said the patients here, many istap trying to serve the hospital, they are still when humane.
But they do not know if this is still private when the POC.
(KR Guda) if the privatization, they even makatapak inside the POC, they cannot do anything about it.

"Not even a private, we are.
You are not really will recover in the mind of the bills.
It is annoying, especially the Filipinos, they pinahihirapan "Janet said.
This is the sentiments of Rubina Padasas, 42, from Marikina who had broken bones when slippery.
According to him, this is the poor because they did not have the ability to pay a lot.

"Now I know about the pribatisasyon it because the truth is I have no interest because all of that he only.
I don't want to vote because that is also.
About the storm is the only interest in news than the statements of the president because they will be the same, "said Aling Josephine.

According to Keisha Orayan, 21, from Madaluyong and two months in the hospital due to the pain in the neck, even if the PPP pauunlarin said that the tools and facilities, nothing to them if they were not able to pay the service.

"Pribatisasyon is really bad.
This is the patients.
I am very (here), because I don't see anything good outcome in pribatisasyon, "according to Keisha.

The said the patient to change the pribatisasyon even if the treatment of the nurses and doctors in their indigent.

Now, they say, and humane to deal with them by the istap of POC, even if lacking in budget to make the facilities and increase the salary of the employees.

According to Susan, they are not the Ortho inside the 17 years to him.

He said, there is a doctor to help them to feel pity for their situation.
Giving them a financial help, although the other nakakasawa stopped because it is because of the long time they here.

Something "they will find a way to live here so that the patient.
I do not know if that is also what they will do if this naisapribado or you need to pay before will your life.
That's why you brought to the hospital to the patient to prolong the life of Susan, "said.

There is no assurance even if the work of the 900 health workers who are working in the POC if will push through the privatization here, according to Sean Velchez, a nurse and the president of the union in the POC.

For sure - based on the experience of many public agency to undergo a privatization - there will be a tanggalan at work to replace the kontraktuwal, said by Velchez.

Babad at work the health of these POC.
They are fired from his job or lessen the benefits if will push through the privatization of POC.
(KR Guda) poor against in the process of pre-bidding on the declared POC in PPP, or privatization.
Last January 25, the operation was a pre-bid conference for the businessman who wants to invest in pagasapribado.

It is estimated that costs P5.43 billion privatization of gagastos POC, and the government of P260-M for the construction of a modern "" super-specialty tertiary Orthopedic Hospital "inside the compound of the National kidney the Transplant Institute or NKTI, in East Avenue, Quezon City.

Series of protests that were launched by the poor people, including the Kalipunan ng Damayang Mahihirap or KADAMAY.
Meanwhile, even the absence of these in the leadership of AHW, active in the protest and campaign to stop the privatization of the POC and other public hospital.

The full support of the patient in the POC.

But they urged the citizens - they for the best-hand about the absence of the government and for humane and caretakers of their rights and health - to join the fight against privatization of POC, and other public hospital.



