
My most memorable combat action: Leave no one behind (also a part 6)

At around 4: 00pm, when the left all of the wounded personnel are even, Gen Roy Cimatu, we all agreed to stay in the encounter site to strengthen the tracking operations.

I am going down again in the encounter site when I received a call from my troops left below:

"Sir, there is a boat that is coming.
We can see that there's a pipe 90RR they carried and it looks like this.
Five people are just "in the boat.

I Nagmadali down and maybe there is a mad to reinforce from the nearby areas.

I am not include "Antayin.
Please do not get closer, when he was shot until we make sure who that is.
Take the Galil sniper rifle "and watch out for us.

I was two mind if the opponent is really your closer to where we were.
The number of the explosion, and for a long time of the shooting, why are they will come?
If the opponent, they are looking for the pain in the body.

All are excited, who had been waiting for '' that opponent coming.
Actually, just a few bullets at the time it is finished, it looks like the ata still 90RR brought by the incoming boat.
Also to lessen the last I magazine, but I will try to One shot, One Kill if needed.
Last resort I resistance my knife.

Using the Galil of my troops, I peek at the 'target' using the 10x Nimrod fixed Power scope who install here.
Zeroed the gun that this up to 600 meters and could hit the 6-inch diameter steel plates.
The people who are arriving at a distance of 300 meters and is going to us.
I noticed that pakaway.

At a distance of 200 meters, I saw wearing shorts others.
There's a dressed in red and he has a nakaputing shirts.
It looks like tourists, brave tourists!

I can see that the carrying 'pipe' is short.
Video camera!
Why there's a tourist has a video camera?

Immediately warned me with the troops and maybe there's something that excite kumalabit and the recently that the heated fighting.

"Ooooops!
Video camera are brought and definitely not that RPG "!

Is at a distance of 100 meters, I know that the appearance.
There's a wearing more ID others.
A smile more kumakaway!

"" Uy, the media!

I Don were identified as Reuters from Bob Ranoco.
There's something with other people that the field correspondents wires.
If you want to scoop.

"Sir, it's a good thing we did not include was shot.
In the neck that bay: We g "!

I just laughed at what they actuation.
Is right, they sumuong of danger.

In the interview request.
Although I did not used to the media, I entertain them.
I am just nagkwento with what happened.
They rub the M60 machinegun that we claimed to Sabaya.
They saw the situation that I met so many was hit in the troops.

When I talked to leave the media, all of the troops.
Consolidate the reorganize.
Are we redistribute of bullets.
In short, hingian and maybe there's a desire to commit suicide attack at night.
Cross loading we call it.

We are also account of ammo expenditures of individual and completeness of equipment.
I was designate of the sectors of fires in the possible avenues of Approach in the patrol base that we chose.

In Scout Ranger, an SOP is Idad would guard in 'rest Plan' but it seems like nothing can't sleep that night.
I am nakasandal in a coconut tree and looking at the ocean.
In the horizon, I can see the light of the fishermen.
It's a good thing, they are still looking for a dignified life and did not like the kidnapping of Janjalani, Sabaya and Hapilon.

Back to barracks

The next morning, I received the order that we are to BTB (back to barracks).
Lumiwanag the faces of the troops when I say that we will go back to the Cabunbata where our camp.

"Continue our 10th anniversary on October 10.
Matarling again in the pick up point we later 11: 00am ".

Although he became a bloody our units in the said altercation, I can see high-morale is still the troops.
I observed everything if there is something as the eyes.
So Far, hence, Good.

When I reached the high part in Upper Manggas, I decided to call on the cellphone my First Sergeant that was left in the camp.

"First, back to the warriors.
Pakihandaan Mess Sergeant in the hot soup and adobo "chicken.

This is the simple the high morale in my personnel.
They are not looking for a high high-tech menu.
The funds of the units, there are allocated to this and in the Company Commander the strategy how he will use it when the mission of the units.
Didn't avoid the others, the strategy '' weak or no strategy.

I also remember all the wounded that troops that are in Camp Navarro Station Hospital in Zamboanga City.

"Papuntahan all the wounded in our Liaison NCO in Camp Navarro.
Ilista kinalagyan and find out that the ward with their needs that we should take action ".

It was discovered that I Don safe all the WIA in danger.
We smiled all the good news.

Pagkadating in the camp at around twelve, ready to our lunch.
Steaming the tinolang fish and laid the boodlefight.
Wipe out the food after a few minutes that I command of 'Commence boodle "fight!

After Action review

That afternoon, I schedule of after Action review.
Here we talk about the events in the recent military operation.

What they are finding out if the individual actions of the troops to know who is deserving to combat Awards.
They are finding out why there's a failure and why is there.
What are also looking into the best practices that should continue in the next the operations.

Through the AAR, formed the so-called after Battle report (Abr) that he basis to others't different admin requirements like replenishment of ammo expenditure and combat Awards.

Through Abr, also writing the Company Commander the lessons learned in combat with the TTPs (tactics, techniques the procedures), doctrinal employment of weapons, and leadership issues that should learn and maipamahagi in the training invited.

Here we have problems the other units if 'brain-powder' the officials natakatalaga.
If there is no make in admin reports, they also have no Awards and Promotions of the troops.
Because it is not allowed to pagkalabit just because of the trigger great Inglisan forced to the officials of the deed of the reports that this.
No matter how always been skillful in the shooting incident and even if there are many accomplishments or lazy, if you do not want to do the reports, low morale the troops and losing their worth their earnings.

I was after Battle report the basis of the Battalion and the First Scout Ranger Regiment for the Special enlistment of CAA Leonardo Orozco.
What I did, I am just nagkwento of his combat actions that really are admirable for our musang.
We also recommended that he received a is one of the highest combat Award for the CAFGU.

In the 9th of October 2001, I crossed Zamboanga to visit them all in the hospital and look at their situation.

Even if the right shoulder is almost wants to stand up and sumaludo in the troops.
For me, I also pinapasalamatan them because I did not put in harm and the more others because of their sacrifice.

No matter what to do, I am also nakukunsensya responsibility because I even anon whatever happens to them while they are in my care.
Like I don't want to call the family (wife or parents) to say that the deceased relatives in our fight!
Simbako!

In ngisi Orozco was when I went to.
I said that I make a way that he will be enlist in the Army according to our Promise of Cpt Almodovar.

I am Naintriga why he was hit while he has a anting-anting when he was cool.

Sir, "prohibited in anting-anting because I handled the using of the opponent.
When I carry ginapang and the M60 machinegun from them, lost strength my Agimat "!

It is also the explanation.
Anyway, as long as it is okay life.
You will also imagine how he got away with the other-ratrat of the opponent in him.

We lead

One month after the fight, nahirang the 10th Scout Ranger Company as Best Company for Admin the Operations in the 50th Anniversary of the First Scout Ranger Regiment.



