16 civilians, massacred Afghan troops US

The Bayan March 21, 2012 eleven six innocent civilians, including nine children and three women were massacred by the troops of the US last March 8 in Afghanistan.
The incident happened in the district of Panjwaii in prubinsya of Kandahar.
Six others were severely injured.
The incident is the reaction of the forces of the NATO, led by the US in consecutive defeat in the fight.

3: 00 in the morning when the troops of the US entered the house of the three family and incessant shot the victim was sleeping.
After the shooting of the petroleum, poured water on the body and burned.
A farmer head of the family is almost lose his head when she found out 11 someone of his family were killed.

Based on the statement of the victim still alive, the troops of the US shot them.
Someone heard the pagdaong of helikopter riding the more or less 20 soldiers.
The neighbors, woke the successive gunshots from the gun from the others't different directions.
They also heard the will of the drunk troops of the US.

But made to come out of the upisyal-military of the US and NATO to the incident, the accident and not the result of their operations military.
This was done by a sarhentong did their kindness and only went out of the camp, he walked by more than two kilometers and went to the place.

Before the incident, the successive failures of the force of the nalasap NATO and the US in the fight Taliban rebels.
Last March 6, six nagpapatrolyang British soldiers were killed in the Kandahar when they were hit by a bomb their.
During that day, nine elements of the Afghan Local Police were killed when the surprise attacked the pwersang Taliban their tsekpoynt in the district of Char Chino, prubinsya of Oruzgan, in the southern part of Afghanistan.

Last February 25, two high-ranking upisyal of NATO was killed when he was shot by a soldier Afghan inside the building of the ministry, CGI of Interior in Kabul, kabisera of Afghanistan.
Then, February 21-25, four soldiers of the US were killed by the police and soldiers in the southern Afghan and the eastern part of Afghanistan after troops burned down by the US the copy of the Koran in Bagram Base last February 21.



