FDA: Be safe from food

DOC WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Pilipino Star Ngayon) | Updated November 15, 2012 - 12: 00am

With the advice given the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) in the leadership of FDA Director General Dr. Kenneth Hartigan-Go.
, Dr. Go is a respected internist, toxicologist and public health be experts.
According to Doctor Go, you need to be careful with the public in buying food and preparation.
This is to avoid disease Food poisoning and loose bowel movement.
Buy food in the famous store.
We can assure the cleanliness of the meat, ham, and Hotdog that only made by-side.
Thoroughly examined not botcha and bilasang fish to buy.
Have a mark the botelya and the container of the ingredients of the food like salt, sugar, and oil.
Also to the mark of the things pambahay like soap, pangkula, pamatay of insects and gasoline.
Do not pagtabi-tabihin said botelya because maybe malagyan poison your food.
Avoid buying pots or expired that products.
There is no truth to the belief that there was a few months the expiry going on a date of products.
Read thoroughly the stated in the canned goods.
Should have label (English or Tagalog) and he is clearly stated in the trademarks.
Read what kind of products, where it is made and when safe to eat.
Don't buy the de-latang nayupi or rose because it is possible that there is a small holes that this is to enter the viruses.
Do not mix the bastard meat in the cooked meat.
It is possible that there is a viruses the bastard meat to be in your food.
Washed the sangkalan, knife and the container of food.
Be clean in your kitchen.
Clean the things pangluto.
Do not allow dapuan of the insects.
Wash the vegetables and fruits in flowing water.
9\.
Thoroughly cook the meat.
When there is no need to blood can be seen in the cooked meat because it's possible to be a source of viruses like E. coli, salmonella and the worms.
10\.
If it was not the food inside the 2 or 3 hours, be it in the refrigerator to not mapanis.
11\.
Do not keep the heat of the food.
Only get enough food for you.
12\.
Wash your hands before eating and before prepare food.
Being organized and clean the primary antidote to Food poisoning and loose bowel movement.



