Sunday, January 13, 2013

How we Ngayon?

If there is no kikibo, all of us are involved.

Almost 2,000 years passed when a group of people went to the Christ, and there is a intensiyong Him and try to be put to shame, in tusong request for him to show a sign for patotohanan that he was the one he is binibigkas Him.
His response, written in Matthew 16: 2-3, is not like when they expected.

2 to answer him and itinugon them: If this'y cover-silim that you have said, "Ito'y will be pleasant time: Because the heavens" was reddish.

3 and in the morning, "in this day will be'y maunos time: Because the heavens was reddish" and threatened him.
You are a hypocrite, nakikilatis your face of heaven, but not to scrutinize anybody's the sign of "the time.

Nakapagpakita, Jesus of many great miracles, and they have no trace of the assumption that they'y growing up.
The evidence is there, but they tinatanggihan accept it.
If that's why they called't when it is right for them -mga hypocrites and deceitful people.
And told him to them as a result of their lack of belief.
The lack of their ispiritwal understanding, mentioned by Christ to them, they should be able to blind to see.
The sign of the time is there, but they still decided to remain doesn it.
Continue to sleep, she was sleeping, and nagtutulog-on.
Very the blind, the deaf, and the silent.
In spite of the nagdudumilat that the truth about their surroundings.

Do not believe and lack of ispiritwal understanding is nakapagdudulot for us to be blind to the danger waiting?

This is the words of Jesus was meaningful for us in this day?
Do not believe or lack of ispiritwal understanding accounts of the people - and even in the whole country - to be blind to the danger that is obvious to overcome and will happen?
It is we do not care and allow the warning pleading to face and let us give proper attention?

We can't understand that this will happen to us?

Pay attention to us what happened in Atimonan, Quezon, where thirteen (13) people were killed and deliberately suspicious that the murder.
There are many times that this is happening even before, cannot be measured.

The attention to someone for a long time, and also in newspapers and nagngangalit that the criticisms on the radio and television the first murder.
But nothing happened, like before, folded the mouth and there will be no care the most of our countrymen, until the malibing again this violence in oblivion.

What is really the deliberately nakapangyayari?

What is deliberately ipinapahiwatig of the Tandang it, especially in our time now?
Many people would be checkpoints the inihahalang on the roads and these'y in the whole country, because of the upcoming election in May.
The maramihang murder happened from the inihalang that would be checkpoints of the police and militarya.
Now that the makakatiyak how we continue to the killing that this will not happen again to us, if we are travelling on the road, and blocked by the would be checkpoints of the police and members of the militarya?

The explanation of an official of the police, if you have no fault and no weapon to hide inside the car, nothing will happen to you.

The question: Do to those who are getting killed, they are at fault?
Not only naparaan others or according to the one who killed, they mistook?

We should not forget the massacre in Maguindanao (Ampatuan massacre), where fifty't eight (58) people were killed, and tatlumpo't-four (34) here is the peryodista and the others were ordinary citizens who naparaan only.
The maramihang murder this'y became possible and came from the iniharang would be checkpoints of the police.
Last November 23, 2009 it, is now in the year 2013, and there is still no clear justice.
Why is he nakapangyayari?
It is because those who have done is strong again and makakatiyak makapaghahatid of many votes in the coming election?
If it is not the reason, why is the slow process?

If you have questions, it also has the answers.
And if there is a slow effect, only proves that there is a reason that makes happening here.

If there is no makikibaka and titindig for our welfare, it would be better for our safety, how we usually the people?
Let us remember that there are now that the nagsususog alisan of the right to hold the gun or be armed with us to the citizens to maipatanggol our own.
And this'y excessive ikinakatuwa of militarya, the police, and the private sandatahan of politicians in the entire archipelago, and it would be better to celebrate here are the syndicate and criminals, because they only have the right to use the weapons.

Papano us now?



