Successful Reyd in 49th IB who are conducting the Oplan Unity

NPA Camarines Norte (Armando Catapia Command)

April 29, 2012 welcoming address report of Armando Catapia Command (BHB-Camarines Norte): Around 12: 11 at noon earlier (April 29), successful nireyd of BHB the 49th IB who are conducting the Oplan Unity-Peace and Development Team (PDT) in Barangay Ma-ot Labo, Camarines Norte.
Nakahimpil ten elements of the 49th IB in Barangay Hall, when he was attacked by the red warriors this afternoon.

BHB were confiscated by the six M16 armalayt, a K3 Saw-Machine gun, a caliber 45 and a laptop.
In the report, welcoming address three died in aktwal to fight and there are wounded on the side of the military.
Along with the kaswalti the Commanding Officer, 2Lt Eric Estravelio.
There is no kaswalti on the side of the BHB.

The troops of 49th IB the cause of the heinous pagmasaker in the family Mancera on February 25 in Purok 6, Brgy.
Free, Labo where the two children with his father, Benjamin Mancera.
It is right to pay the berdugong troops of the 49th IB in mercilessly murder of the two children, Michael (10 years old) and Richard (7 years old).

Fierce wreaking havoc in life and livelihood of farmers in the town of Labo the berdugong the troops of the 49th IB who are conducting the operation Oplan Unity in the name of the "peace" and "" progress.

The PDT, the former so-called SOT, the name change is attempt of the regime US-Aquino and tabingan to erase the bloody record in violation of human rights by the previous SOT of the military.

Since last January, did the operation of Oplan Unity of 49th IB the 14 barrios in the town of Labo.
The paghimpil of the PDT in the sentrong flock is a violation of the law of digma in relation to the use of the public facilities and crowded places in pagbabase by the military.
Nailalagay for the safety of the people in the pagbabase PDT in the barangay hall, said that care centers and in the center of the flock.
The human shield of the military the taumbaryo.

The reyd that this is the response of BHB the request of the citizens to give justice to the cruel pagmasaker in the family Mancera last February 25.
Had long been calling the people here to let the 49th IB in the town of Labo that nilulunsaran Oplan Unity, because of the cruel record of violating human rights.



