Health FRONTIERS: Chronic kidney disease what the symptoms of kidney disease and how to prevent this?
I am afraid because my sibling died because of this.
I am saddened by what happened to her sister.
You did not tell if what kind of the kidney disease he got but I think this is chronic kidney failure or chronic kidney disease.
The from the kidney-area of our bodies.
He was washing the dirt and excess fluids in the blood before he went out in urine.
In the chronic kidney failure, slowly destroyed the kidneys.
Because of this, where the body of garbage.
Can you feel or little the symptoms of early) of the chronic kidney failure.
What is worse here is not the obvious this illness until the damage is already big of kidneys.
Some of the symptoms of the chronic kidney failure, little by little or no urine out of the body, pagduduwal, vomiting, there is no appetite, weakness, fatigue, difficulty sleeping, swelling of the feet and being ankle, decreased mental ability and itchiness.
The illness that causes chronic kidney failure, diabetes, hypertension, enlarged prostate, kidney Stones, bladder or kidney cancer, polycystic kidney disease, infection in kidney (pyelonephritis), lupus, vasculitis (swelling of blood vessels), lupus, scleroderma (A chronic skin disease) and the destruction of the big veins that learned of blood in the kidneys (renal artery stenosis).
Aside from this, there is a big chance that you had a chronic kidney failure if you have a heart disease, smoking, fat, there is a high cholesterol level, there is a family history of kidney disease and a 65-year-old and above.
If this is the pain, the doctors will try to slow the progression of the disease by treating the underlying cause.
But when it reached end-Stage kidney disease, need dialysis or kidney transplant on to live the patient.
To avoid the chronic kidney disease, help you through the kidneys to avoid alcohol or lessen the one you.
The man, take only 2 alcoholic drinks, she said that she and 1 alcoholic drink, for the woman.
Don't drink a lot of over-the-counter (OTC) painkillers like aspirin, Ibuprofen and acetaminophen.
It is bad for the kidneys.
If you are history of kidney problems, consult the doctor first if you can use.
Keep a healthy weight with regular exercise.
To reduce if needed.
Avoid smoking and immediately went to the doctor if you are diseases that might harm kidneys.



