
KAPRITSO of flesh (Ika-45 outside)

Also not pinaligtas of Sally that they magkuhanan of a picture of Jason on the side of the giant "" working flower clock.
This is composed of the life of plants but moving like orig that clock quickens and gives the right time.
-touch that he is when they arrived in "" Small Water falls.
Very romantic the former.
Ideal for those who love to sing and want to spend time in that place.
They also happy nagkuhanan here in the picture.
Sweet that the two sweet and sometimes, they cannot help but magtukaan.
While the two were rejoicing, there is a notice Sally.
A man earlier that it seems that they are still watching.
Can't help but did not look at the women to get to know.
His eyes widened when he was recognized and he was not able to suddenly kabahan.
Edward... is the cousin of the wife, Jude.
He was with a woman but it seems like a Filipina.
Smile this when he noticed that he was looking for Sally.
This was forced to approach the woman.
"B-how you here?
You are nagwo-Work? "He asked.
"Two years.
And close I magbalikbayan! "She said.
Approached them Jason when they saw talking.
Forced to meet with the woman.
"Jason, my friend here in Taipei," pakilala to Edward in with.
She introduced the end of the first as a close relative.
, the two men.
After this, stay away from them Jason so that they would have a chance to talk.
Taking her pictures are just taking him in the nearby.
Buking Sally.
He knows that they saw of Jason while nagtutukaan.
What he should explain to Edward.
"You do not resist, what!" Nakangiting said the man.
"You find a hobby" here in Taipei.
Looked at the woman to man.
For the eyes.
"We are just the same.
You saw the woman Taiwanese with me?
He was the one I inaasawa here in Taiwan.
When I arrived home, then that the two of us, "nakangiting Edward continues.
"Tell you to Jude that we saw each other here in this pasyalang?" Kinakabahang asked the woman to man.
Why not "?" Answer of Edward.
"P-Please"....
"Don't worry.
I e-edit the story.
But do not also magkukuwento to my wife about you saw when you nagbalikbayan! "Said the man.
Thank you! "" Sally said.
The their conversation magyaya when the companion of Edward.
The man said goodbye but he took the cellphone number of the woman before they got away with your partner.
When they do not have to go back to his side, Jason.
Maybe the cousin "idaldal you in the Philippines that you saw a man with the trips here in Yangmingshan," said the young man.
He said, there is no pakialamanan ".
There are doing this, he is also a miracle "answer of Sally.
"How could you?
That man.
Nothing will be lost in her even if there is a makaalam that there is a miracle the cousin.
But you, as a woman.
You will be gone for a lot of time with makaalam with the to-with you here in Taipei, "Jason said.
Sally did not make a sound.
It's because the man has a point.
't especially that he is not the one who is the cousin of Edward but his wife, Jude.
He suddenly namroblema.
The young man took advantage of the opportunity to put the combat plan.
"But do not worry.
If you will be angry at your husband and breakup with you, do we permanent our relationship.
We will get married here in Taipei, Sally, "formal said Jason.
Will continue



