On the first day of the Rio + 20 in Brazil: Nature, don't sell

Contribution by June 20, 2012

Against the environment Partylist in mungkahing "Green Economy" that it is a big country and the corporation in Rio + 20.
(Nature Partylist) you should not pinepresyuhan the environment to sell in a few: This is the message of the members of the environment Partylist, which launched this morning of the protest in front of the embassy of the US in Manila, as support for Global Day of Action in the opening of the second United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (or Rio + 20) in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Protested against the environment Partylist the mungkahing "Green Economy" that it is a big country and the corporation in Rio + 20.
In order to achieve the balance of the development and the environment, we need to the corresponding "market-based" and pro-kalikasang technology, concept and products in the 11 susing sectors of the economy: Agriculture, pangisdaan, water, forests, energy, manupaktura, garbage, infrastructure, transportation, tourism and cities.
Also of those who are pushing that he needs to be pinansyahan the visit of the world of the Green Economy in the amount of it takes two percent of worldwide gross domestic product or GDP.
But instead of like to ensure that this is in the state, the tinutulak that the mekanismong pampinansya is the investment of the corporation based on what the market, according to Frances Quimpo, general secretary of the environment Partylist.
Included in the Green Economy mungkahing put price the rekurso and service of the environment (like the wind, water, animals and plants) and the pro-kalikasang knowledge and praktika of people (like the indigenous farming) to easily peddle in the market.
This means of more pribatisasyon of the pro-kalikasang technology, service or product through the Public-Private Partnership, he added.
Magbubunsod the Green Economy of the regulation against the environment and anti-people to open up a new can make a profit of the big corporation, "said Quimpo.
"This is not the solution to the problems are related to the future of mankind: The crisis of too much, therefore, malakihang pagbuga of greenhouse gas of the corporation and industrialized countries that becomes a cause of climate change in the world, and the destruction" do our environment, he said.
For the environment Partylist, should be patatagin of the Philippines is a national economy, to defend natural resources from more destruction and corruption, and move the real progress for the people and the environment.
The Rio + 20, one that aims to Supreme Court the path of international economy, will be held from June 20-21, 2012.
This is the first major gathering of the government of others't other countries after the first Rio Earth Summit in 1992, two decades have passed.
In the Rio de Janeiro some of the leader of the environment Partylist to bring the call of the people and inside and outside of the kumperensiya.
Included here are Quimpo and Clemente Bautista, Jr., the president.



