Australian actor, impressed by the skills of Filipino Max, Mother of Dragons the peg By Allan Diones July 18, 2016 one more proof that's favorite Director Mark the Game of Thrones is the taking of GMA in the Australian actor, Conan Stevens to be part of the Encantadia.
Conan is the starred in the role of Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane in the first season of GoT.
Attend, Stevens in presscon and she will be the first to come out of the cast to answer a few questions.
According to a tall and big bulas that foreign actor, he impressed in the camera Work, the use of filter and acting in he watched Pilot episode of Enca.
Obviously, he did not understand something "the Tagalog dialogues, but he respected here.
I "'m impressed with what happened in the first show.
Give IT A Month, give IT two months and you will be screaming how Good IT is, "bulalas of Conan.
About animation and Special effects of Enca who was obviously inspired of Game of Thrones, said that Stevens, the GoT hango in A Song of Ice and Fire book series by George R.R. Martin, also inspired by The Lord of the Rings novels by JRR Tolkien.
That's why he said the normal something'n.
Aside from GoT, is also worked as Conan in The Hobbit prequel LOTR that in the film series of Peter Jackson.
Then are now is going to be part of the Enca, hence, it seems that the magkakakonek what he is doing.
Even if he can see the pagkakatulad, he knows that will have their own trademarks the Kapuso telefantasya.
"The Filipino creativity is World-Class.
This is just a demonstration of something real Big, is going to have'm Far is going to be concerned.
This is gonna be really Good, "pakli of foreign actor.
That's why he accepted the project that this is because Good move this career-wise for him, apart from this enjoyable.
He was able to work in Thailand, China and India, so if he idadagdag the Philippines in his resume as an actor, he will bring a larger audience when he comes back by America.
IT makes him MORE again actor is going to be valuable for other producers and part of his career as an actor.
It is not yet nagsu could take, Conan for Encantadia, but she said, the Filipinos have international reputation of being friendly and polite.
So, he is looking forward to be working with the Whole team.
He did not mention what will be his role in Enca.
The said by Director Mark, Conan Stevens will in the former's role as Benjie Paras barbarian, Wahid.
Tonight was the start of Encantadia requel (mixing retelling and prequel / sequel), which is one of the pinakamagastos that production of GMA network.
In the form of the cast, we, because of the volume of the character of the said telefantasya phemomenal that hit 11 years August.
Before the grand presscon of Encantadia, first watching the press the Pilot episode.
Just the beginning, there is a Big battle scenes immediately and the scene is full of Special effects.
We noticed the title sequence (if used to be called OBB or opening billboard) which is obviously "inspired" of the title sequence of Game of Thrones.
Self-confessed fan of the hit HBO series that the director of GoT Encantadia Mark Reyes.
Daenerys Targaryen or Mother of Dragons of GoT the peg of the new character Amihan (Max Collins), the sister of diwatang Ynang Queen Minea (Marian Rivera).
Riding a flying dragon which Amihan when umentra in the scene.
Only guest role and died immediately, Max as Amihan, that's why ipapangalan of Minea in the second child were killed, his brother.
Beautiful gandahan the queen of Lireo nakatunggali immediately, that the bad fairies, Adhara (Sunshine Dizon).
Her Ynang Queen in her womb is the second child with her husband, Raquim (Dingdong Dantes), the magiting that the leader of the soldiers of Sapiro.
The ancient fairies, Cassiopeia (Solenn Haussaff), four mapipilitang divide in the most powerful brilyante as protection from those who want to steal or snatched it.
Ipagkakaloob of Cassiopeia in four kingdom of Encantadia - Lireo, Sapiro, Adamya and Hathoria.
She will get the greedy Hathor the brilyante of Adamya so they will be more powerful, in the leadership of Arvak (Roi Vinzon) and Hagorn (John Arcilla).
Got, Director Mark Reyes war'ng grand presscon of Encantadia.
Because he was emotional after three failed attempts, last Year, finally given a go signal the remake with this project.
Director Mark is thankful to GMA who trusted it was so expensive to show that this, according to him, up to reduce this 2016.
There are nakatrabaho them in the original Enca again with them now.
According to the director, like war'ng first, it did not work for him but a vocation.
This is not you can do if you are not dedicated.
He dugtong, the scene, costumes, the contribution of the craftsmen, puppetters, visual effects team and all that, it is very hard to do.
He said, 11 years passed and he is not able to the child.
He's hoping that he will be survve show, but to the energy that is given to him by the new cast, she said it is impossible.
Director Mark, said that this is part of the Philippine Pop culture and even before, he did not lose the Encantadiks, that's why she also wanted to return it for a new audience.
Aside from to the Encantadia game app in the Apple store and Google Play, there will be the merchandise and other't another gimmick which will be held in the show until Christmas, ikakatuwa of many.
It is difficult to "the fight, we know that".
But we are ready to fight.
Ivo Live, Encantadia! "Appeal by Director Mark Reyes.



