
Nakapagpanatili and continue to nagpupunyagi in pushing the digmang town the rebolusyonaryong movement in Mt.
Sierra nuns-southern Katagalugan in the middle of the brutal campaign of of domination and violence of Oplan Unity of regime US-Aquino

Geronimo "Ka.
Geron "riding NDFP-Mt.
Sierra nuns-southern Katagalugan December 26, 2014

The rebolusyonaryong movement in Mt.
Sierra nuns-southern Katagalugan nakapagpanatili, and continue to nagpupunyagi in pushing the Digmang Bayan in the middle of the brutal and malaganap that violence and of domination of Oplan Unity of regime US-Aquino.
The New Nakapagpupunyagi Hukbong Bayan (BHB).
The baseng masses and organisadong people is growing.
Your rebolusyonaryong pampulitikang influence and becoming more stable and deep nakaugat the masses the Partido of the leaders of the struggle of the people.
Holding the standing success, and the occasion of the 46-anniversary of the pagkakatatag of the Partido insist of the Philippines, it is just right to happily greeting all the kadre and members of the Partido, all of the red Commander and warriors BHB, and all of the rebolusyonaryong where the forces of Mt.
Sierra nuns-southern Katagalugan, and in the whole country.
Sumasaludo and am we all the rebolusyonaryong martyr and the heroes of the citizens in their no covetousness sacrifice.
While-time we inspiration to execute the duty to bring the digmang town from the current stage of estratehikong offensive tungong estratehikong pagkapatas.

The presence of BHB at Mt.
Sierra nuns-TK that sumasaklaw in the province have scythe of kanugnog of Metro Manila, like the Laguna and Rizal closest to the door of Malacañang and as well as the southern and Central Quezon, is a regime that the throat of reaksyunaryong sitting in Malacañang Palace.
Staying and diligence of BHB in this province at Mt.
Sierra nuns-TK is that it seems that the nightmare of the reaksyunaryong regime were taking advantage of people who is based in Metro Manila.

The previous campaign military to eliminate the rebolusyonaryong movement in Mt.
Sierra nuns-TK like kinamuhiang Oplan Bantay-Laya regime of US-Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, they failed.
Meanwhile, also you fail the current campaign of the violence of the regime of domination and US-Aquino under the Oplan Unity (OPB).
Eat of the AFP Chief-of-Staff now, General Emmanuel Bautista his statement that he insignipikante the armed struggle in the time of his service.
She is like all of the past like her who expressed their fear of crushing rebolusyonaryong movement but all nangabigo.
The AFP to admit Naobliga masmidya to remain in the strength and size of the force of the BHB in the entire country in the former as this, for almost five years, the implementation of the OPB.
In spite of bragging to success were allegedly OPB in general.
In fact, the AFP is still pinalawig OPB until 2019.

In the province have where of Mt.
Sierra nuns-TK, it was proven that the mapanupil failed and violent OPB like the past the counter-citizens Oplan.
More cannot eliminate the rebolusyonaryong movement of regime US-Aquino.
Instead of smashed we have maintained the presence of hukbong town.
Continue to napreserba of BHB himself and nagpupunyagi in pukpukang pikikipaglaban in the forces of the AFP-PNP.
The number of units of milisyang town will increase of 2 company.
Sumasanib in the regular units of BHB, something that is what strengthens the ability of BHB to launch of the taktikal offensive.

In the past two years, (2) has of 50 (50) anihilatibo and atritibong taktikal offensive in the whole where it to the province or four it every month.
This caused two (2) platung kaswalti (26 dead and 27 wounded) in the ranks of the AFP-PNP.
Nabigwasan of BHB pasistang the troops of the enemy included in berdugong 16th IBPA, 1st IBPA, 59th IBPA, 21st and 22nd DRC-PA, under the 2nd ID-PA.
Also Pinarusahan BHB the opportunistic and are destroying the environment that the mining of stone owned by big a kumprador and foreign capitalists have like Rapid City Corporation in Antipolo City, JCR Aggregates and Rodriguez Rock, Inc. in Rodriguez, the province of Rizal.

On the other hand, continue to increase the baryong where the Partido and activity of BHB pampulitika.
The baseng people are up a few thousand in the entire sub-region of Mt.Sierra nuns-TK.
Based on the organisadong of 68 percent inside the 2 years since the end of 2012.
The Nadoble naitayong the actual Ka masses (GSM) of the farmers in spite of non-stop attack of an enemy..

It was known that the anti pasista, anti-pyudal and anti-imperyalistang pakikibakang masses of the people against reaksyunaryong regime US-Aquino is getting.
Never succeed the enemy in his campaign to get the "mind and heart" of the people.
Pinapaypayan the anger of the people of papatinding brutalidad and the violation of human rights by the troops of the regime pasistang Aquino.
More kinamumuhian the berdugong 16th IBPA, 1st IBPA, 21st and 22nd DRC-PA, the units of the AFP to the primary tagapagpatupad OPB in the provinces of Rizal, Laguna, northern and Central Quezon because of their violence, rape of women and destruction in the livelihood of the people.

Continue launched the protests in the foot and plains of Mt.
Sierra nuns-TK until in Metro Manila to imarka vehemently fighting against the increase in the price of oil, increase of tuition, pangangamkam of land, demolition of the home of the indigent and destruction of environment caused by malaganap, mining and quarrying operations.
The malaganap to kick out of the indigenous people and farmers in UP Land Grant in Real, Quezon, in the land of ARC in Mauban, Quezon, in lupaing are claiming of the Roxas to tayuan of Pacific Coast City in the town of Nakar, Quezon and the province of Aurora, and is set to be pagpapalubog in the seven (7) barangay in Tanay, Rizal and 2 barangay in Nakar, Quezon to the construction site of Laiban Dam and Kaliwa Dam, pushing for the people in the countryside for protest and fighting for their rights.

The scheduled to kick out those living near the lake of Laguna for the construction site of circumferential Road (C-6) and the planned extension of the MRT 7 from Quezon City to Bulacan, magtutulak to the people to take action and defend their lives and livelihood.
It is clear in the people of Mt.
Sierra nuns-TK that only in nagkakaisang objection and be samang action only effective defended the legitimate rights.

The group of the Partido in the province, grow and continue to the number of the a basic organisasasyon of the Partido.
The Napapatatag ideolohikal, political and organisasyunal that the leadership of the Committee of the Partido in Teatrong Gerilya, the Committee of the Partido in Prenteng Gerilya and the Committee of the Partido in Kalunsuran of Mount Sierra nuns-TK and the organization of the Partido in the ranks of the citizens in the barrios, the community, the factory, the pangmasang organizations and alliance and in the units of BHB.

More than 95 percent of the members of the Partido in BHB was able to finish his studies in a basic course of the Partido while the graduate from the ranks of the branches of the Partido in Lokalidad is up to 45 percent of the members of the Partido.
The studies in IKP, was the kadre of prenteng gerilya, the kadre of Section and some of the kadre of the branches of the Partido.

The success that we claimed in the past 2 years, it is clear that nagpapasubali in the statement of the AFP-PNP to the campaign of of domination and violence under the Oplan Unity against rebolusyonaryong movement in the province where the sub-region.
The bragging of the AFP to the province of Laguna, insurgency "free" is a kabulaanan reason to never lost the BHB in said province since the 1970 "s.
Definitely not miss the presence of BHB in the province of Rizal and in the middle and Northern Quezon.
In fact, maintained and napreserba of of BHB himself and all of the rebolusyonaryong force under the regime US-Aquino.
In spite of for the preservation of the forces of the AFP-PNP of three to four battalions of the Philippine Army and 2 battalions of SAF-PNP supported by the 3 battalions of CAFGU and Regional Police Safety the Maneuver Batallion who continue to naglulunsad of sustenidong campaign of pagkubkob and paglipol against the forces of the BHB have maintained the rebolusyonaryong force the inisyatiba and pleksibilidad and successful failed the attack of the enemy.
The 56 fight between the BHB and the troops of the AFP-PNP is 50 here is inisyatiba of BHB while 6 the only ones in the inisyatiba of the AFP.

The current pampulitika and ekonomiyang crisis in our country, in the middle of the worsening crisis of pandaigdaigang papatinding sistemag kapitalismo.
The pangangayupapa and turned different pagpapakatuta of regime imperyalismong BS Aquino in the US will be nagpapalala in the poverty of the Filipino people.
The regulation of rehiment pinatutupad US-BS Aquino is not nagpapaunlad in the livelihood of the people and especially lamng nagbabaon to the people in the quicksand of poverty.
The serious economic crisis, nagpalala of the crisis in politics.
No now the movement streak.
Not only the progresibong force the nananawagang oust BS Aquino.
Even the ranks of the church, the professionals, the anti-Aquinong faction in the ranks of the naghaharing kind and foreign capitalists have is nananawagang to overthrow the regime BS-Aquino.

Napakapaborable the current situation to lead the masses, continue to fail your Oplan Unity, intensify the fighting to overthrow the regime BS-Aquino, fight the worsening interbensyong military of the US, continue to fail your OPB and magpunyaging Sumulong tungong estratehikong pagkapatas.
We need to be strong to fight to complete the rekisitos to bring the digmang town from estratehikong depensiba tungong estratehikong pagkapatas in the next year.
The most important of all that we continue to paghusayin mobilisisayonng the masses to fight the mapang-mistreated and mapanupil that regime and energized pakikidigmang gerilya of the masses.

We need to do all the way so we launched is the right type and form of the antipyudal who struggle and the pakikibakang pagtataguyod masses for the interest of the masses to further becomes aware, maorganisa and mapakilos in their thousands as for the armed revolution.
In every campaign and mobilisasyong masses, it would the maamayang the pampulitikang awareness and naoorganisa for the revolution.

Needs to be active participating all the renbolusyonaryo and progresibong forces in the sub-region in pushing the anti-imperyalistang movement studies and offensive in propaganda to intensify the call to dismiss the agreement that does not equal military like the EDCA, VFA and MDT, end the presensyang military of the US and kamtin justice to the crime of the American soldiers against the Filipinos.
It is also necessary to counter the aggressive propaganda that imperyalista in preparation for the meeting of the APEC in Manila in the coming year with the goals to make it look like a milagrong more-ekonomya and tabunan too much suffering and bullying to the people after three decades of liberalisasyon, deregulasyon, pribatisasyon and denasyunalisasyon.

We need to continue to strengthen the level the company the gerilya.
In the where of Mount-Sierra nuns-TK can be and can magpanatili of nine (9) to eleven a (11) was the company the Gerilya.
Needs to non-tries to increase the number of BHB until matayuan strength platung units of BHB in every town where the Mt- Sierra nuns-TK fit buuan of the units of BHB.
We need to continue to encourage the are able to go to school, youth to join the BHB to punuan the needs of the official in politics and Kadre of the Partido for the growing force of BHB at Mt.
Sierra nuns-TK.
The operations partisano mailarga needs to be responsible for the sagadsaring tagalabag of human rights, the sagdsaring destroy the environment and other has a serious crime against the citizens and rebolusyonaryong movement.
It to continue to contribute to the sub-region in raising the armed strength of BHB in the entire country to target this paabutin in 25,000 in the entire Philippines to makasulong tungong Estratehikong Pagkapatas.
Kailansabay need to be continues to increase the units of Milisyang Bayan, units Pananggol in Baryo, and units for his own Depensa and be trained and it is them.
Needs to be continuous pakilusin the masses to the taktikal offensive, paniktik, rekrutment, therefore spread of supply and lohistika and other activities in the revolution.



