
Corruption is behind the lies of 503rd Brigade and the PNP-Cordillera

Diego Wadagan NPA Abra, Agustin Begnalen Command Ika of February 2, 2013

In corruption and lying in the back of the hungkag statement of 503rd Brigade of the Philippine Army, and the PNP-Cordillera in relation to the few incident recently in Abra, related to the NPA.

The first is allegedly not'y to surrender of Connie Santiago Valera, 29-year-old, of Poblacion Lacub Lacub, Abra.
Said of Cordillera Police Director Chief Superintendent Benjamin Magalong, Valera, a high-ranked leader of Ilocos-Cordillera Regional Committee of the CPP and number 5 in 4th period "Order of Battle" of 2012.
Not officials of Agustin Begnalen Command Connie Santiago Valera, and more importantly, it is not a high leader of Ilocos-Cordillera Regional Committee of the CPP.
The modus operandi of the officials of the AFP and PNP markahang high-ranking officials of the CPP-NPA-NDF the ordinary citizens that it is speculated or they several members of the rebolusyonaryong movement, so the "kolektahin reward money" worth of a few million.
It can be recalled that the government appointed by more than P400M PNoy for the reward for the capture of the leader of the CPP-NPA-NDF.
So't some of the ordinary citizens that the arbitraryong dinadakip and pinaparatangang high-ranking officials of the CPP-NPA-NDF.
On the other hand, in the only berdugong criminals, General Jovito Palparan, that they did not even with the appropriate case in the head, because of the pagkukopkop of the AFP and PNP in him.
Second is the right-allegedly'y four (4), the NPA, who was killed in an encounter between the forces of the 41st IB and the NPA in Lagangilang, Abra.
It is true that there was a fight between the forces of the 41st IB and the NPA under the Procopio Tauro Front in Manipit, Kayapa, Lagangilang last 9: 15 in the morning, the of January 30, 2013.
But the opposite to the statement of the 41st IB and 503rd Brigade of the Philippine Army, no one was killed, the NPA, or even just injured.
On the other hand, there is no less than 2 soldiers of the 41st IB were rushed to the hospital after the fight.
But the bigger issue after the fight this is the illegal capture and taking a of 4 common farmers from Kayapa, Lagangilang of the members of the AFP.
They were out to flock to find a bee last January 30, 2013, on the day of the fight, but it is only now able of the AFP and threatened not to tell anyone about what happened to them.
The naihold that people were Anacleto "Killito" Tugade, Ceferino "Boying" Poclani (Barangay Kagawad of Kayapa), Jemmy Esmie Bageng, and Bonifacio "Pacio" as.
Immediately searched for the family of the 503rd Brigade HQ in Barbarit Lagangilang, the said missing masses, but he said the AFP to the NPA don't look for it.
There is nothing in the NPA, and not the work of the NPA to catch and especially the ones who killed the salang individuals, not like the AFP and PNP.
Not so these are the binansagan of 503rd Brigade of the killed NPA?

In addition, even before the fight, beaten by the soldiers of the 41st IB, Meymar Alcantara, a youth from Kayapa, Lagangilang, Abra.
The suspected supporters of the NPA, Meymar Alcantara.

Again, the motive of the officials of the AFP in kasinungaling a 4-NPA, who was killed in the fight, the appointed by the beautiful reports for their promotion and limpak-limpak that money in their retirement.
In addition to this, the goal of the kasinungalingang to perfume the vast citizens, while more likely, they are doing in the disappearance of 4 citizens from Kayapa.

Rotten in the depths of the institution of the PNP and AFP.
He is corrupt and a liar the officials of them.
Even more, they are fighting for the interest of the people, but the interest of the few naghaharing kind and foreign monopoly capitalists have.

This is the reason why you fail to continue the Oplan Unity and being the demokratikong revolution of the town, leading to the stage of pagkakapatas until gabap to success.



