Fight the zika, it is important to protect himself, according to the DOH

December 10, 2016

Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, December.
10 (Pia) - it is important to protect of each one himself because this is a shield to fight any disease that might infect him.

That is why the strict reminders of the Department of Health (DOH), especially in the spreading illness due to the bite of the mosquito, the zika virus infection.

According to City Health the Sanitation Department- Program Manager Dr. Teresita N. Dolor, the zika virus infection is a type of infection that naisasalin through the bite of the mosquito (aedes).

This is the some of the symptoms of a person who has a chikungunya is having a fever, abuse of the joints, headache, redness of the eyes and pamamantal of the skin.
He said, one of the five people have symptoms that this is for the two to seven days.

Complications, like microcephaly, a condition where the size of the head is smaller than normal size of the head of a saanggol.

Guillaine-Barre Syndrome, a rare but serious condition that he gets the immune system of healthy nerve cells that becomes a cause of weakness and numbness of the body.

According to Bolor, getting sick when naisasalin to people through the bite of the mosquito that aedes aegypti that have beaks of the zika virus.
This is the so-called said that biter nagangagat or in the day.

As well as, through sex with people that there is a zika virus can get the said disease, added Bolor.

According to some of the research, the zika virus in the kind of liquid in the fun of people like the blood, saliva, urine, amniotic fluid inside the house at the time of the child pagdadalang people, semen, chemical in the brain and the spinal cord.

The official said, it is possible that it will be through the use of the insect repellants, to wear clothes that have a long manggas and pants, use of the window screens or to make sure was closed the window, use kulambo, clean the place and things that can be turned into a warehouse of the water like a pail, out of the plants, container of garbage, tire of the vehicle and the side of the roof of the house because of this which is where mosquitoes.

Still, he said, there is no vaccine against the zika virus is the only way to fight this is to drink a lot of water and rest.
If there is a fever can drink medicine that eneresita by a doctor.
If there is a symptom, bring them to the nearest hospital for a thorough analysis of the doctor.
(CIO / LTC / Pia-Mimaropa / Calapan)



