The mother's milk for children'y tumalino and got stronger

DOC WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong

According to the Department of Health, the mother's milk more nutritious than ordinary milk.
In English language, "Breastmilk is Better than cow's" milk.
Because of this, urged the DOH to put the allocated breastfeed the baby.
For the first time childbirth, should be to breastfeed the baby of her mother.
Many benefits this: The ingredients of milk of the mother: The breastmilk has fats, protein, carbohydrates and minerals like calcium, phosphorus, sodium and potassium.
Aside from this, there is also resistance to diseases like IgA and IgG that special ingredients of the breast milk (that the infant formula milk).
Benefits to the baby: 1\.
When it was proven that there are a lot of studies that really win the mother's milk compared to the breast milk.
2\.
The mother's milk have the ingredients that antibodies like IgA and IgG that what strengthens the immune system of the child.

3\.
The colostrum or "first milk", the mother is.
Tumatapal it in the stomach of the baby so she will not be hit by bacteria and allergy.
4\.
In breastfeeding, the loose bowel movement and vomiting of the child.
This is not like that in the bottle of milk mix in the water that it is possible that the bacteria kontaminado.
Clean the breast of the mother compared to the bottle.
5\.
In breastfeeding, having an asthma, cough, bronchitis, allergy and eczema.
Can also to the destruction of the teeth.
6\.
It is more intelligent the child who breastfeed.
According to research, increase their pagkatalino of 10 to 12 IQ points.

Benefits to mother: 1\.
If the mother nagpapadede, he did not immediately mabubuntis.
2\.
The mother is going to be closer to his son.
The their bonding.
3\.
The mother is more sumasaya while breastfeeding, because the endorphins or happy hormones his body.
4\.
A lot will be saved by the family of breastfeeding.
Free for the mother's milk.
The expenses you just is eating food of the mother.
There are additional benefits the breastfeeding in our community.
When the child was not magkakasakit makakatipid, the family and the government.
So for the mother and father, you try to be breastfeed your future children.
He can in many diseases.
And makatitipid you.
Good luck!



