Drugs in a smashed lice once and scabies

DOC WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Pilipino Star Ngayon) | Updated November 20, 2014 - 12: 00am

Smashed lice once (head lice): The medical term for a smashed lice once that is Pediculosis Capitis.
The smashed lice once is a very small that insects and color brown purses are good.
There are sharp hand is like a smashed lice once cockroach.
If we, which was infected with this in our hair.
We can see the white-white that sticks to the skin's hair is the egg of a smashed lice once called Lisa.
Also called nits or lice eggs.
Often kumakati smashed lice once, because of the head of the patient.
It seems like there is balakubak them.
There are also a pimple on the head, neck and shoulder.
Quickly infect the smashed lice once.
If the head madikit you to a person who has a smashed lice once, he can immediately moved to the smashed lice once in you.
The things that are often dapuan of smashed lice once, the pillow, shirt, hat and stuffed toys.
This is when Banlian boiling water and ibilad in great day.
It is hard to kill the smashed lice once, but here are the ways.
Magpaikli of hair - get a haircut of thin or be layered the hair so there is no makapitan the smashed lice once.

Use suyod to remove the eggs and smashed lice once in the hair.
Buy Kwell shampoo, generic, 10 milligram Permethrin.
Basain the hair, put Kwell shampoo and let the hair of 10 minutes before rinse.
Be careful not to go to the eyes.
To repeat this after a week when it was not yet the smashed lice once.
It's not stubborn.
To cure the smashed lice once and do not manghawa of others.
Scabies (scabies): The scabies are from the small animals that if it is called the Sarcoptes scabei.
The living scabies in the body of the people and the animals like the dog and cat.
When in people, you can live with 1 month the scabies.
When the body of the people, he was still alive until 2 days.
Because there are families who crowded in the house and the side-side to infect, the scabies.
Be careful in using a towel, pillow, bedsheet and handkerchief of a person who has a scabies, and maybe you influenced!
The scabies, which is in the hands, pulsuhan (wrist), feet, elbow and breast.
Like a small pimple that there is a line in appearance.
Parasitiko are hiding in the skin-folds or between the fingers of the hands and feet.
Makating-Makati the scabies, and more importantly, Makati at night.
Sometimes, because of the skin nagsusugat kakakamot.
How gagamutin this?
Buy Kwell Lotion, the generic name is Permethrin 50 milligram lotion.
Follow as the direction of the use of this.
Take a bath first, then put the Kwell Lotion in the whole body, from head to foot.
Let the lotion in the body of the 8 hours and after that, take a bath again.
If it was not the scabies, apply again of 1 times in the next day.
Remember: Follow as the direction of the use of Kwell shampoo and Kwell lotion, because there is a side effect if they have too much.
All have scabies in the house should be to cure.
Because if not, is magkakahawahan repeatedly.
Avoid scabies.
Avoid smashed lice once.
Maintain cleanliness in the body.



