Happiest people

Happiest person (Mt.
11: 28-30) who is the pinakamasasayang people in this world?

That cannot be rich?
In them all and they can get the things that they want to.
They can match the all of the desire to mapasakanila.
That cannot be famous?
They and tinitilaan and proud of many.

They go to undergo pictue and will authograph.
Always gives them all the attention of the tumutingala to them.

That is capable of those who have power?
They are the king and the leader who will give you the ability to implement the law and their feelings should be followed which is.
That could have the title and intelligence?

The brain, they are the ones who have the ability to understand the poor topic in science, politics, pilosopiyaat many others.
They are the pinakamasasayang people in the world?
Where do depends on the happiness of a person?
Said by Jesus: "You approached me, all of you and having a hard time with the!! In, and I pagiginhawahin" you.
Turns out.
It turns out that we can be found the true happiness... when they went to Jesus will find the safety of life, when clings to Jesus will be hayahay the life.
But did not want this, he was asked to take everything!! Bear.
It does not mean that he will lose all of the problem.
It does not mean that he will lose all of the surface.
When we came to him, he will be how we look at the life.
He Iibahin our perspective about all of our value.
Do you tidy up the wrong importance to our pinanghahawakan.
Who is the pinakamasasayang people in the world?

Not the rich.
The true happiness is not the accumulating money and properties but the pagkwala or slowly needs... not the famous.
The real person is happy and "-Home "that in his mind and not intended the admiration of others to complete his personality.
They are those people who they know the beauty that can be found in their own.
Not the powerful.
The real person nakadarama of happiness is not in need of strength to follow the others to him.
Enough for him that through his doing even if there is no words, he tinutularan of others.
The people who are not in the eyes of the akademiya and the university is smart.
The real A nakadarama is the people who believe that the Lord has a good plan in his will never heal it even if he did not completely understand.
Those people who understand that life is from God and to God also return.
PS.

I am happy when I wake up that there is no cold!



