The intensified campaign versus lessen the benefits, ikinasa these health

By Pher Pasion February 9, 2012

These are very nagpiket pagkait health because of the Aquino administration in their ipinalabang benefits.
(Pher Pasion) "Policy decision" is left in the curtailment of their benefits.
This is the response of the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) in the call of the workers that the absence of DBM the plan to lessen their is left more benefits.
In the conversation with the health workers, including the Alliance of Health Workers (AHW), insisted that the DBM lessening benefits of these health.
Basis is because this is in the Department of Health Memorandum Order Number 2012-0002 that the command of the curtailment in alawans in the laundry of the employees.
Under the said memorandum, will be P130 every month only from the said alawans 150.
Meanwhile, kakaltasan also from 50 pesos per day of making tungong 30 subsistence was of the ordinary employees in the institution and health programs of the government.
It is said that the basis of the DOH memorandum of DBM Budget Memorandum Nos. 107 and 112 that give guidelines in preparation for the budget for others't other agencies in the year 2012 and 2013.
"If the purpose of the government is to remove all the benefits of Magna Carta like the representante of DBM in the consultation and meeting, he will not let it happen," according to Emma Manuel, President Emeritus of AHW and radiologic technologist in Tondo Medical Center.
The absence of the employees pagkabalisa Manuel even explained, that causes "pagkabalisa and demoralisasyon" is not just and against-in-law "the directive.
He also said that like other people, is already being affected by the nonstop price of goods and services, and health workers they need any additional benefits given by the government.
The Paliwala AHW, that is the order of the DOH and memo of DBM in Implementing Rules and Regulations of Magna Carta of Public Health Workers who nakapetsa last November.
1999.
Stated in the said the rules and regulations that the government needs to maglaan of 150 every month that was laundry and 50 pesos per day (or P1,500 every month) that was subsistence.
They also said that "contrary to the provisions of the Joint Resolution number 4 or Salary Standardation Law III (SSL III) is lessening, dismissal of the benefits, it is stated in the Magna Carta" said the order of the DOH and DBM.
If you want to "magbawas why don't you are in the top?" According to Dante Perez, manggagang health from the Philippine Orthopedic Center.
Perez also said that the government is not in the hospital was going for the (majority of) officials in the government.
"So they did not see, and more importantly, they do not feel that the condition of the ordinary patient.
They do not feel that the poverty in the span of the public hospital ", he said.
Fear of Perez, maybe the day arrived that none of health workers who would stay in the Philippines if this situation is that the low wages, benefits and reduced lacking.
"We did not resist to leave the needs of our service even if our low wages.
Yes.
When we entered service for the Filipinos but we don't "gaguhin," said Perez.
According to Amalia Magno Amang Rodriguez Memorial Medical Center: "It is painful to think that we love our work in spite of the low salary and difficult situation, but we are not" loved by the government.
Protest the call Nanawagan AHW punuin that the protest of the hospital to others't other form like the hanging of streamers, ribbon tying and be noise barrage in order to have the "" atmosphere of protest in objection in the said pagkaltas.
They have grown old "that we are in service.
But we do not see any changes but continue to paninikil and make, "harvest Remy Ysmael of Tondo Medical Center, 38 years in service.
"Organisa singilin and we and the government of this.
We have no other dependable.
Lives and livelihood are removed from our all, "also said by Ysmael.
A big protest of the these will prepare the health on February 14, Valentine's day, in Mendiola to calling the Malacanang.
"Full of sacrifice when it comes to sectors of the health.
But all of endurance, still has a limit, "threats of Perez.



