Saturday, July 14, 2012

Only Pag-love true love is composed of this, two soul who became one of the care and pagdakila't in one by one.

Saturday in the morning, like before, many of the patients in clinics of the barangay Kupang.

My name'y Rosalie Cruz, and as a nurse assigned here, it is the duty to find out the condition, heart rate, breathing and some of the questions about their illness before they examined by a doctor.
In ikawalo patient, when I arrived and catching her breath and an old man is to remove the tahi in his wound in his right thumb.
According to him, this is a great, and pleading to hasten the treatment because she wanted to go to his engagement in the span of 30 minutes.

I asked for the meantime, and a few moments, I looked into his condition.
In my opinion, he will wait for more than an hour before he face the doctor that will examine him.

Every time I mapapasulyap in his seat, was noticeable his pagkabalisa and often admiration for his wearing watch.
Because I am not busy in a patient, I thought to take care of it to know if there is a need to remove the tahi of his wounds on the thumb.

Great wound is easy, that's why I talked to a doctor to remove the tahi.

I inihanda the tools and some panlunas when to completely fix it.

While I was washing his thumb, I asked the old man why he nagmamadaling leave.

The response to me, should be he arrived at the right time in the home of the elderly (nursing makasalo Home) for his wife at the breakfast.
I found out what his condition.
He mentioned to me that this has been living in the house of the victim and his wife for ulyanin (Alzheimer's disease).
In our conversation.
I asked if worry his wife sakalimang is caught when he arrived at the right time.

The calm reply to me, he did this "you notice, in fact, even I know that she has not yet in the past five years".
I was shocked she pointed at it and kapagdaka'y I asked him again, "and you still continue to goes home every morning, even if he does not know you"?
A healthy smile his isinukli and the two times he squeezed my right hand, along with the statement that he was not ", I know, but I know she is"!
I tried to stop the my tears.
And when he will leave, take this humalagpos and matuling naglandas in my both cheek.
I Nausal in my own "Ito, the kind of love that I want to happen" in my life.

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

The real Pag-love is not a physical or romantiko.
True love is the accepting whatever all the was inserted in a relationship; without the condition, the threats, the reason or reason and any pagtatama.
What is the past, what will happen, and you can't count on.
This is not pipti-pipti (50 / 50) responsibility, but this'y sandaang percent of appreciation, concern, and a love of bawa't one.

Jesse Guevara

The city of Balanga, Bataan

Posted by Jesse Guevara

And 8: 46 AM



