
Series of the violation of the rights of makakalikasan criticized in the Philippines

Soliman by A Santos SSeptember 1, 2013

Pierson was criticized by the group makakalikasan them'y the increasing number of the violation of the rights of the aktibistang are against the mining, after the latest series of the murder of the indigenous people in the southern Mindanao and losing a activists in Nueva Vizcaya.
", it is clear that the violation of the rights of the aktibistang pangkalikasan in the murder of Anting Freay pinunong Blaan, and his daughter, Victor, the well-known members of the local opposition to the mining of Xstrata-SMI in Mindanao.
The victim was the 25th and 26th that aktibistang are against the mining, who was killed under the Aquino administration, "Leon said Dulce, spokesperson of the Task Force-Justice for Environmental Defenders (TF-Jed).

According to Karapatan-Socsksargen, being the wife of Anting Freay, Kiit who survived the attack in their family in the early morning of August 23, the murder of Task Force Kitaco under the 1002nd Infantry Brigade of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP).
Prior to this, also inambus the miyembrong paramilitar of Task Force Kitaco another child of Anting Freay, Eking with the brother-in-law is Sonny Boy Planda last June 28.

Seriously wounded in ambus, Planda while those who survived, Eking.

Meanwhile in Nueva Ecija, inulat of Karapatan-Cagayan Valley the disappearance of Bryan Epa, another aktibistang pangkalikasan who are against the entry of the Australian company Royalco in the town of Kasibu and Dupax del Norte.
Was arrested by the local police Epa last August 21 and saw when they looked for her friends the next day.

"Epa is the third makakalikasan that they lost while Kiit Freay the ikapitong victims of attempted murder since last 2001.
We believe that the pagsahol of militarisasyon in the community affected by the mining is caused by are desperate attempt to recover in the industry for their investment in spite of the citizens, "said" Dulce.

Announced recently of Anglo-Swiss Xstrata-SMI the pagpapaliit of its operations and expenses because of the rejection of the people and the local mining ban.

He has already spent 20 billion Tampakan project from in 2007.

The operation of the Royalco stopped, because of the barikadang itinindig of the local organizations since last May 8.

"Continue to use of PNoy of militarisasyon and violation of human rights by the makakalikasan connivance, it is clear that the big company of mining to stop the legitimacy and demokratikong opposition of the community.
We are calling for the Aquino administration to remove the military in the area of the mining and file a case to the military and police who are involved in the violation of human rights, "also said by Dulce.



