, GMA again and remove the blames. COL.
ANDUYAN

There are the officials of the government that sukdulan being stupid, that's the socket to do the face!
One of those, parekoy, Cesar Villanueva, the chairman of the Governance Commission for the Controlled Government Owned Corporations.
It can be recalled that since of PNoy, he immediately binanatan the GOCC official in the administration of GMA like the SSS, GSIS, PhilHealth atbp. nilantakan because of the wealth of the country.
According to PNoy in his first SONA, makakapal the faces of the said official gave their own because of the huge bonus when the people in poverty.
So in 2011, PNoy was appointed Villanueva to stop the said greed, but just last week, the COA revealed that the racketeering of the hijo-de putang official appointed by PNoy in the said the agency.
In fact, that the COA ipinasasauli P2.13B nilantakan that the inhumane!
It means, parekoy, not nagampanan of stupid, Villanueva his job as chairman of the Governance Commission for GOCC.
The thing is, instead of having to admit her being stupid or if there is left in the body is still embarrassed to just have to resign from his post, well, then, the Animal nagpalusot!
You see, parekoy GMA, who was still in the sinisi billion pesos that is obvious that the administration of PNoy nilantakan!
In the interview of the media is almost bumula the mouth of the impaktong, Villanueva while nagpapalusot that he did nothing can be done because of the strength of an order signed by GMA before he left.
King-mother!
"That even if the signed by GMA that the contract was dismissed and the appointment of PNoy because" "detrimental to the public!
Don't you "magpalusot, the lust!
Pwe!

Until tagatanggap, I mean,, the office of Rizal Provincial Director Senior Superintendent Rolando Anduyan the involvement of his name in the illegal gambling in his "erya op" respansibiliti.
Yesterday, we took out the chance in the mouth of the members of the gambling lord Bong Sola business partner that they, Colonel Anduyan in illegal gambling or bookies!
Whether it is true or not, the said allegation, the truth that they are in and the widespread illegal gambling of Sola in the entire Rizal.
So he should just remove, Colonel Anduyan!



