Detatsment of the military, nireyd in Camarines Norte

The Bayan May 07, 2012

Attacked the Pulang warriors under the Armando Catapia Command (ACC-BHB) the barangay hall in Barangay Maot, Labo, Camarines Norte where the nakahimpil berdugong troops of the 49th IB last April 29.
Who were killed in the attack of BHB the four soldiers while another was wounded.
The Nakasamsam Pulang warriors eight weapons consisting of six ripleng M-16, a masinggang K3-SAW (Squad Automatic Weapon) and a pistolang kal .45.
Also confiscated the other kagamitang military and a laptop computer.

Denied the successful taktikal opensibang that this is the statement of the ninth ID of the AFP to have no ability to BHB in the region to launch a successful offensive against the pasistang troops.

A rebolusyonaryong military operations against the soldiers of the 49th IB when they attacked the BHB.
They've aligned the Pulang warriors the attack before noon, when he left the nine soldiers to know in the neighboring town of Calabasa and left the only ten others, including their leader, 2Lt.
Eric Estravelio.

Bloody the record of the 49th IB in violation of human-people.
Included in the crime the pagmasaker of the family who Mancera last February in Barangay Malaya, Labo.
The farmer was killed in the massacre, Benjamin Mancera and her two children with a minor, and wounded one of his daughter rudely when they were showered with bullets by the soldiers to the house of the family Mancera.
Using the station of the soldiers are the public facilities like the barangay hall, daycare center, schools, churches and the house of civilians in military operations.
They are threatened and hinaharas the civilians in the barangay and pinaaaming members or supporters of BHB.

The rebolusyonaryong movement will be saddened over the death of a civilian and another one in this fight.
The ACC maugnayan trying to the family of the civilians involved and they will help to the best of the best, "said Gregorio" Ka Greg Bañares ", spokesperson of the NDF-Bicol.



