
Seminar of DOST, goals to guide the grade school students to get in college with the course

July 01, 2016 Bhaby P. de Castro

The city of Batangas, July 1 (Pia) - was the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) the career Planning seminar on STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) to guide the students in the right to get course when it comes to college.
She said seminar in the course might get the Grade 10 students to mapadali the choosing track the Senior High School and even the course may kuhanin in college.
Some of them are the career connected to the engineering the Industrial sciences, Information Technology, medical the biological Science / Food Science, Science Education, chemistry, physics the Mathematics, geography the Earth Science, Environmental Science and agricultural Science.
According to Engineer.
Alex Sy, the vice president of the Philippine Association for the Advancement of Science and Technology (PhilAAST) Division, required sunggaban of students the opportunity when they saw it and choose the career they want.
"When there is a opportunity do not let it immediately grab you because you may not once again they spotted, follow your heart to what you want to do in the future, please" Sy added.
It was said by Dr. Jaime Montoya, executive director of the Philippine Council for Health Research and Development that the engine of the economy is the siyensya and technology so you need the ability to from here in order to be good in the resolution of the problem and making the right decision.
According to him, it is a big part of the proper communication and personal skills alinsabay of the good manners like the service, compassion, empathy, continue to study and integrity.
According to Dr. Corazon Menguito, Vice-President PhilAAST Division D, the seminar, like this will give you the opportunity to the youth to buy whatever race can choose to when the time comes.
Menguito also stressed that there are scholarships that given the DOST for the youth with kakulangang financial so that their studies.
In the message of PhilAAST President and incoming DOST Secretary Professor Fortunato dela Pena, he said that the encourage of their office to study the youth of the course in relation to the STEM.
As a country prospers, there is a need to the people who have expertise and technology, which is why the siyensya't two times in a year, they are going around to conduct a career Planning seminar, and give the alternative the youth in what kind of the race their one in the future.
He also praised the Batangas State University as one of the state university in the country that nakapahusay to produce the Engineers.
In his priority to plan in his term as DOST Secretary said that there are programs, they will be implemented to some sectors will improve.
In the field of health will push for their office pagdevelop of medicine from the halamang herbal and making the medicine from the chemical galling to plants.
In the industry is the continuous pagpapataas of processing were confiscated by the products from the Agriculture and marine resources.
In the research development, the expected discovering new material and product design, expand the use of output from R the D feet in the use of laboratories like the government agencies and even the private sector and the discovering good technology that will help to the poor local government.
Lined up the pagpapataas of kapabilidad of institutions in the region in relation to the R the D, modernization of the facilities for scientific and technological Services, especially in the part of the Visayas and Mindanao and hasten the taking of advanced learning to Senior the T to track the progress of the country. (MCA / BPD-Pia Batangas)



