Health FRONTIERS: Not arrived two months how the mens delayed "I?
Reporting pregnancy test to me but it is negative.
Possible so that the pregnancy test me?
Though the menstrual cycle of every woman.
The menstruation, can start every 21 or 35 days and it lasted for two to seven days.
In the first year of the start of the menstruation, naturally the long cycle.
While the older woman, shortens menstrual cycle and becomes a regular.
The so-called "regular" the menstruation when the length of every month.
But it is natural that their sometimes it even once.
Your period there be light or Heavy, painful or not, or a short time for a long time, but it is still normal.
If the mens irregular, there are many reasons.
When stopping menstruation, it's only natural that you think that you are pregnant, especially if you with sexually Active.
It is easy to see the pregnancy test.
But the home pregnancy tests that can be bought at drugstores, it is possible to make a mistake in using it depends on you.
A false positive (saying pregnant even if not), you can happen if you test reporting after taking a fertility drug that there is a human chorionic gonadotropin, you are ovarian cyst or ectopic pregnancy.
A false negative (saying that you are not pregnant, even if you are pregnant), it is possible when the time of taking the test or diluted the urine.
For sure, do it in the morning or in the first week after you missed your period.
Follow the Package instructions to avoid false readings.
To repeat this after a few days.
Better still, a blood test or have a pelvic exam.
This will confirm whether you Are pregnant or not.
If you are not really pregnant, the delayed or missed period, it might be the result of eating disorders, too much of the weight or too taking e-exercise.
Another reason of missed periods, polycystic ovary Syndrome - a hormonal disorder that caused pagtubo of the small cysts in obaryo.
This can also happen to women who have premature ovarian failure.
Missed periods Can also be caused by endometriosis where tissue that is inside the uterus grows outside.
One of the symptoms of this Severe menstrual bait.
Another possible cause of irregular periods is pelvic inflammatory disease - infection of the reproductive organs.
Meanwhile, the uterine fibroids - non-cancerous growths in matris, creates a Heavy menstrual periods and blood on between periods.
The drinking of birth control pills may help to become a regular the menstruation.
But do not do this if you think you are pregnant.
Consult a doctor to examine and you know the real reason of your problem.



