Take it slow in diskwento By Rey Marfil January 16, 2017 very lucky that the senior citizens in the Philippines because they pet care of the government.
First of all, because of the iginagawad in their 20 percent diskuwentong benefits in some service, even in the food, medicine and other pangangaila: The line of old age, 60 years old and above.
But you know the diskwentong it is given to our beloved senior citizens, naabuso?
Said naabuso because we are usually carrying their relatives are grandfather't grandmother to pay bibilhing grocery or souvenirs.
Of course, because it is a grandfather and grandmother't discounts they are, especially at home.
I noticed a establisiyementong naabuso using the senior card is a famous bilihan of donut.
The donut Pinipilahan companies and bibihirang store this wherever they are in the Philippines, there is no line.
That is why it is one of the favorite buy a gift using the discount card of the seniors.
For now, it is a huge diskwento not pipilahan their given, it is not like a few restaurants, bakeshops or other stores that is limited to eaten by the senior the diskwento is right because this is the provisions of the law.
I do not want to magmagaling but this is the company because they might in the future, and they makwenta closed the huge diskwentong refuses to give it to the seniors that are usually they are just being used by the child, grandchild or other relatives the IDs to buy discounted that donut.
The moment masasakripisyo closed some of our countrymen who will lose their jobs because of the abusive done by some of our fellow countrymen.
So hopefully he saw a few nagpapalakad of the company it to correct or, if not, the implementation of the little restriction for the sake of the future of their staff.
I want to stress that we are not against the benefits of the seniors iginagawad is not only we cannot sikmurain is the abuse of some of the benefits that should be just for the needs of our grandfather't grandmother, mother and father.
Anyway, it is very hard pacified to those who were taking advantage of benefits for our senior citizens, it is better to the companies.
But it is right to make sure that the diskwento recognize the requested increase diskwento because if there are opportunistic relatives of the seniors using prebilihiyo't of grandfather, grandmother, it is also not missing the companies do not care about ipiniprisintang the senior citizen card because she is asking for all kinds of documents to just tablahin the elders who are asking for diskwento when it the provisions of the law.
Our call, use of the benefits given by the government.
"Don't take advantage of it because there are about to be hit.
Always remember: "Your child and I" Ako the Seoul's spy n'yo ".



