
The declaration of the ceasefire for the traditional Christmas, on the anniversary of the PKP and the visit of Pope Francis

Committee Bank, Partido insist the Philippines 17 December 2014 Translation: Ceasefire Declaration for traditional holidays, CPP anniversary 'visit the Pope Francis

Being brought out of the Committee of the Partido insist Bank of the Philippines (PKP) the declaration of the non-stop-putukang this for all of the kumand and units of New Hukbong Bayan (BHB) and milisyang town that there is a virtue to follow time:

12: 01 n.u. of December 24, 2014 until 11: 59 n.g. of December 26, 2014; 12: 01 n.u.
December 31, 2014 until 11: 59 n.g. of January 1, 2015; and 12: 01 n.u. of January 1, 2015 until 11: 59 n.g. of January 19, 2015.

In the coming days, said all of the units of New Hukbong Bayan and milisyang town is asked stop the launch of the opensibong operation against the units and members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, the Philippine National Police and other't other armed groups paramilitar of the government of the Philippines (GPH).

This is being deklarasyong as support to the Filipino people in their celebration of the traditional Christmas that makakasabay of the celebration of the PKP anibersayo on December 26.

Also being the declaration of the non-stop-putukang this as respect for the upcoming visit the father of the Roman Catholic Church, Pope Francis that they are of the Filipino people to a chance for the celebration of panrelihiyon and to bring the featured issues like the abuses military and the violation of human rights of the people and the children, the issue of Hacienda Luisita and the widespread lack of land, poverty and taking advantage of the farmers and workers, burukratikong corruption and negligence of the government in the survivors of the disaster and the poor.

While there is a virtue the declaration of the non-stop-putukang this, all of the units of BHB and milisyang town, we should stay in the active depensang posture.
All the Commander, Pulang warriors and milisya, we should stay vigilant and always alert to the pataksil that pangungubkob of those who are ooperasyong military and members of the police of GPH in the territory of the demokratikong gubyernong town.

All of the units of BHB and milisyang town should be ready always in the option to makipagsagupa in the aggressive units of the enemy as defending himself to stop them to make the impudent brutalidad and of domination.

The citizens should remain on alert in the continuing the campaign of of domination of the regime Aquino under the Oplan Unity.
Aquino regime used by the visit of Pope Francis as a reason to magdeploy a huge number of armed troops to stop the people in the oorganisa and kolektibong state of their national sovereignty and demokratikong aspirations in the time of the visit.



