
Corruption in LTFRB (2)

It is sad because deliberately while ipinangangalandakan of President Aquino in his campaign against corruption and attitude "" sounds, it seems like the only what he is the former officials of the government.
He is blind and deaf, silent when it comes to the openly corruption of his own allies.
"As the one we talked to under PNoy, of no" "sophistication the corruption of his bataan unlike in the past administration with" Class "garapalan and if not steal.
Inside the Land Transportation Franchising the Regulatory Board (LTFRB) and Land Transportation Office (LTO), the happiness of the corrupt.
It's only that, "naiba the player but both of them are still their style to, to hoard money even if the price is the safety of our passengers and other motorists.
Just an example in the case of the smoke-belching that seems to be just a-people will only be done by the LTFRB and LTO in their campaign against the vehicle almost black the smoke emitted is very.
Of you don't need to iparaan in smoke emission testing the many passenger jeep and bus because even if it was still think you know when the smoke-belcher (put them only of people in EDSA will surely that they caught smoke-belcher).
The question, why is it, that they are in the streets while every year the renewal of the vehicle is registered?
The passenger buses, many are also not that should be allowed to sail on the road because aside from the poorly maintained, it is also not safe from the stated that the tire and almost tabingi because run-down the chassis and suspension of them.
Aside from the barumbadong driver, the maintenance of the reason for an accident that involving the passenger jeep and bus.
This is the reason why one of those who are always blamed every time the driver involved in the accident were not bite their brakes or appointment so, they lost control of the steering wheel.
The question, why is it when the nakalulusot nirerehistro?
Why is allowed to drive even if it is really obvious that they are safe in the streets?
And who is this official of the LTO named "Benjo" that he was the one who started the many colorum bus?
"That our hihimayin next Bigwas!
For your suggestions and comment, email only in gil.bugaoisan bahalasitulfo gmail.com.



