
Will hold the regime Aquino in the death of the child of Andrea--PKP

Insist the party of the Philippines May 20, 2014

Translation: A Aquino responsible for death of Andrea's baby - CPP

The management and the whole group of the Partido insist of the Philippines (PKP), the prisoners who sympathize with pultikal, Andrea Rosal and his whole family is not that it is time passing of his two-day-year-old daughter Diona, after having hypoxemia, or the lack of oxygen in the blood.

The death of Baby Diona, there is no doubt that the nakaugnay to humane kundisyong experienced by Andrea in his cell and pagkakait of kalingang health before giving birth.

Almost two months before he about Andrea Rosal, who is in jail with the 30 other inmates.
Since be imprisoned in Camp Bagong Diwa, she did not receive the required kalingang medical for the pregnant.
, who was denied that he is having bentilador in the middle of the high temparatura climate.
Pinahihiga him on the cemented floor.

In spite of having an order from the court, Andrea was only brought to the hospital last two days when the humihilab her womb.
One day after he mailuwal the baby, ordered by the police, the military and the upisyal of the cage to return to jail that he immediately direct neglect of the situation he is not yet completely nakakarekober in the delivery and on the trauma that the result of the death of his baby.

The PKP were to Andrea, to his family, friends and supporters, to his lawyer, doctor and the tagapagtaguyod of human people, fail in the regime Aquino because of not humane condition of pagkakapiit and pagkakait of kalingang medical to Andrea.
Where the Filipino people, with the regime pagpapanagot Aquino, especially the upisyal to the police and military, in the death of Baby Diona.

The PKP Nakikisa in increasing to appeal to the scythe of release to Andrea Rosal from imprisonment.
This are the Kinukondena made gawang cases of kidnapping, that was filed against him in imbing effort to pay straight the arrest and continue to detensyon in him.
Like the several malisyoso Andrea, he was charged as a high upisyal of New Hukbong Bayan (BHB) of the upisyal of the military to ipaghambog their "success" in's in him.



