
Caraga Food Safe intensified campaign of DOST, Winrock International and Pia Caraga

November 09, 2016 Gaitano Jennifer P.

Butuan City, November.
9 (Pia) - more intensified campaign for the public towards clean and safe food that can be bought in the market in the region of Caraga after nailunsad and signed the memorandum of Understanding (MOU) of the Department of Science and Technology (DOST), Winrock International - Philippine Cold Chain Project (PCCP) and Philippine Information Agency (Pia) Caraga here in the city.

According to DOST Caraga regional director Dominga Mallonga, who was also leading in Caraga Food Safety Team, the said campaign is based on the Republic Act 10611 or the Food Safety Act of 2013 - the law that what Food safety Regulatory system in the country that the health of the konsumante nagproprotekta and are supporting the local food and products.

Mallonga added, the Food Safe Caraga is a Information and Education campaign of Caraga Food Safety team composed of different agencies of the government, together with the other partners in the non-government and civil society organizations.

It was discovered that the Food Safe Caraga campaign, who said that in the two major components.
This is the cause of the training programme on Meat handling for the meat shop operators, workers and Meat vendors.
And the goal of the said campaign to improve the Food handling practices of the residents in the region and this is through pagamit of technology and media.

Pia also assured that he will be given the full support and will be used by the agency and all of the platform maiparating only to the public the important information about the campaign.

Shared by Winrock International Chief of party, Dan Gudahl their goals to help the Caraganon to avoid different pain caused by the dirty and not the right preparation of the food.
The Winrock International are required to give her suport-financial for the said campaign.

Meanwhile, became a witness, DOST Secretary Fortunato dela Pena in the signing of the MOU of the said agency and applaud their became considers for Caraga Food Safe campaign.

The Department of Agriculture (DA), the Department of Health (DOH), and the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) is also included in the partner-agencies to help in the implementation of the campaign.
(JPG / Pia-Caraga)



