FWRC: Home of the winner

Filipino Workers "Resource Center the call for the second home that she was the nabibigong OFWs in their another town.
This is also known as the house Kalinga, especially in the part of the Middle East.
We have fellow countrymen is experiencing severe abuse and pangmamaltrato from their employers, especially in our women so they just forced to escape or to run.
According to Administrator Carmeliata "May" Dimzon "of Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA), the government is really nilayon paglaanan of espisipikong places stampede of our for aged women who OFW.
But why is considered by Dimzon that even winner and may not be the loser our OFWs when they went to these houses conform?
Even if it is still failed to abroad, were oppressed by the employer, not fed and other abuse, when she was forced to FWRC our OFWs isinasaayos, while the required documents for their repatriation, they are preparing for their once again return to the country.
They are taught by the livelihood, sinasanay to add knowledge, so even if in the abroad, able to think and nakapagdedesisyon that what they can profit from the return of the Philippines.
Through this, they may not be the once again to abroad.
It is just right that they will be treated by Administrator Dimzon winner that our OFWs "to come from kanlungang like FWRC because of the many information they learned.
They are indeed not talunan because there is a new hope that are waiting for them.
Nabawing documents May investigating the ship the seafarer, Salvador Wendica, but he is the only've because of their captain and strong favorite in the year nakatunggali of Salvador.
Filed an illegal termination Salvador but not ibinabalik his original documents such as a seaman's book, passports and some copy of his certification.
After the matter of Bantay OCW to POEA Administrator Hans Leo Cacdac the this complaint, immediately issued a resolution Cacdac and ipinababalik to Salvador his documents.
Returned to Radio Inquirer Salvador and he was very thankful because she was able to last September 18, 2013 all of his documents.
Now, he wants to ask for Maritime lawyer Dennis Gorecho if there is hope to get her is the amount of money she should have told him in the entire time of the ship when they still have a contract and he won the illegal termination case against manning agency.
Home Na!
Approached Bantay OCW, Yolly Abaco for his brother Sonia because it is not good treatment of her employer in Qatar.
He wanted to Damdam agency patakasin was only Sonia and promised that they will answer his plane drifted ticket home to the Philippines.
Coordinating with the Bantay OCW in the embassy of the Philippines in Qatar and called the employer of Sonia.
Brought the employer our OFW in the police station and they are the only turn over to Sonia in deportation center there.
According to the Philippine embassy in Qatar, gave a ticket to the employer of Sonia and return to this last September 18, 2013.



