VERY Good by PNoy in the survey and the lies

NAGHAHALO tinalupan the skin on the damaged by typhoon Yolanda in Visayas.
About this in is sent out from the Social Weather Station "Very Good" the increase of the victims of Yolanda to President Benigno Aquino III in action this for them.
For the tsuwariwap PNoy in the palace, after the SWS survey, they might be nagpamisa in happiness.
The problem is, it turns out in the streets are the thousands of people and the victims of the storm that land "" the increase of PNoy to them.
12,000 only rally estimated 12,000 victims of Yolanda, the rally this past week to condemn the extreme kabagalan of the government to help them.
Many are still not reached the said that they'y attended and joined.
Many others were riding a jeepney from Samar that was stopped in the streets of the police to attend.
There is an additional PA Ayon at the People's organisasyong Surge that led to the indignation rally, quickly the number of the victims who want to join the coming more rally.
Himself from those who want to go to the rally in Visayas, the victim and not of the typhoon Yolanda.
There is also a call to other people and organization outside the kinalamidad place to help them so the sundutin wetpu of the government to act and he quickly responded that there are here.
VERY Good Ayon in said SWS survey, which is higher than the increase of PNoy himself from the victims of Yolanda than from not victim outside the kinalamidad place.
Very Good PNoy, said, in Leyte, Samar and nearby areas in gradong 79 percent is with the + 54 percent trust in him while outside of the place, 69 percent said the increase in a "lies" the survey, said of those who are the rally.
If lies the results of the survey, the thick face from the data of SWS?
Three months BOKYA almost three months since the devastation, Yolanda last November 8, 2013 but it is considered by the victim bokya the government for the help.
If there is, to some noodles, sardines and rice.
There are foreigners and private help even just hid the corrupt like the imported food and kagamitang personal until he saw that will in the grocery and mall.
There are also the Housing project like the bunkhouse.
But, son of tofu, kinulapulan by the anomalies of the officials of the government.
It was only good and there are private people and organizations that give a big help to the victims.
We do not want to identify who does not want to get to know more of the rehabilitation czar Ping Lacson those who are involved in the bunkhouse scam but near the results of the investigation of the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group about this.
If there is evidence that pinera the bunkhouse, you can count on you, idol Ping, to reveal to the public the nagkapera even in death, poverty and hunger of the people?
Businessmen and mice are not victims Sabi the People's Surge, not the victims of the calamity is being given by the government of the importance of the rehabilitation program but the businessmen.
Nagpapasubasta that the government of the projects that lalamon in up to 300 billion fund the town for the supposedly the kinalamidad.
But it is not saying that somehow'y good-good direct help in the calamity but "nakapaliit that are 30,000 pesos for those who have totally damaged houses and 10,000 pesos for those who have partially damaged.
But the explanation of DPWH, construction materials and will give a little wage to the do but for a few days only.
P40,000 Ayon the need of the victim, it is better strive accommodate each family of the government who were affected by the storm of the amount of even P40,000 and they are the bahalang to get rich here.
For them, they will learn how to use the amount for their immediate need, including the capital for their livelihood.
This was far from the situation in telling the DPWH and far away from the contents of the rehabilitation program.
In the position of the DPWH, more favorable the negosyate making the iron, the cement, hollow block, nail, wire and more than the people that there are local materials that they use it is acceptable.
Sumandal when they are in the rehabilitation program, so they also horse that ginutom of mataagl time before they provide aid.
For a long time is the program that will last for one, two, three, four and five years.
Maghunos appointment Next time according to the relatives of the Palace of Very Good achieved in the Malacanang, maghunos appointment should be the first.
They should not wrap of kasinugalingan the truth because "repeat it again to wear it, someone might be kicked out of the position when not at the right time.



