
What are the eve

I do not know why napakaaga woke up on December 31.
The last day of the month and the last day of the year 2016.
After 12 midnight, well, 2017!
New Year!
I tinitipa eve when this column.
I do not know why this is kaaga is the order of my mind to write.
And I do not know of your taste the content of it?
Asking because my mind when there is an occasion.
Christmas.
New Year.
Birthday.
Celebration, etsetera.
It looks like a more severe the preparation of the people during the eve than the day of the event that will happen, isn't it?
On the eve of by the attention of the preparing.
Treating any occasion, happiness or sadness, in preparation for the inside of the heart - happiness or sadness?
"The very day, busy.
Like the feast, not the magkandatuto maghahanda of food for visitors.
As well as Christmas and New Year.
In the birthday or sadness, the eve of the determines of all.
It is true, "isn't it?
On the eve of the New Year, I am not inihanda Noche Buena for a living, but also of our family.
There are ready to lulutuin.
Kalderetang might.
Tinolang chicken and sweet.
"Just that.
But the feeling.
What is the sent in my life, in our life after the eve of the New Year?
For me, the eve of the hope that determines or wanted to happen on the day of the waiting for.
Anoman this, the eve say if the preparation is right, anoman the occasion.
After the eve, the day of the scheduled.
I was formed the expected now?
If the anoman ipinaghanda, the arrival of the guests, that's why they happy?
I did the right preparation for them?
I was given the right taste to them?
Nakatutuwa, isn't it?
You are extremely inabala yourself on the day of the eve just to ensure that all of your pinaghandaang the whole day.
You to spend, tired, you are still in your own the worried might not right or your preparation.
I am Nangingiti in writing this.
I do not know if it is right to your taste.
After this, which I have water and nagtimpla of coffee.
Also thought if the ingredients that cooked for the New Year, will be the only one my family in our shared - in the time of the eve and day of happiness!
BALETODO / Ed VERZOLA



