, "Yolanda" and the modernization of AFP

Tweets targeted

Many lives were changed and can still change of super typhoon "" Yolanda.
The effect he is not only to the people but also in the institution - including the Armed Forces of the Philippines or Armed Forces of the Philippines and may even the modernization.
It can be recalled that the pinagtutuunang on the leadership of the government is the so-called "minimum credible defense capability" or the ability to just enough to defend our country.
Even before the typhoon "Pablo," "" Ondoy, and etc., the AFP is the primary, it is expected that sasagip and magliligtas in becomes the victim.
But it is "Yolanda" - not only because of this assigned in history as the strongest typhoon and the extensive damage it brought again in the Philippines on the map of the world but also because of the biggest gathering of the country that brought help or / and equipment to assist in the Philippines.
Natambad the difficulty of the ability of the government to respond to the calamities that has this intense and the extent of the damage.
The AFP, although't immediately covered in the first time future pagkatama of "Yolanda," lacking is the things that other humanitarian-Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR).
Need more ships, airplanes and helicopter that makapaghahatid help not only until the airports and seaports but directly to the barangay affected.
This is the big challenge to the government.
The cause of the broken bridge, naghambalang tree, post, and cable conduct became an obstacle in the road, and the destruction of communication - the lack of received help, 10 days after.
In the influx of a lot of help and equipment from others't other countries and private organization, the couple slowly be solved a very large needs of the victim.
A lesson the calamity that this to see what more there should our government, including the AFP, in order to be more answer to the calamity.
This means of additional funding for the Philippine Air Force cargo planes and helicopters; Philippine Navy sealift vessels; and 6 × 6 Trucks of the Philippine Army.
In front of the umiigting other threat to security and freedom of our territories in the West Philippine Sea, the couple slowly buys the government of some fighter jets, attack helicopter, multi-purpose attack craft, missile ship, and radar system to add up to the external defense capability of the country.
But it's not even the tension subsiding, this is the declaration of China of his new Air Defense Identification Zone (AIDZ).
In AIDZ of China, all of entering the zone (make north of Taiwan; southern of Korea; and southern-west where the Japan) should be introduced myself and to follow alituntuning his itatakda.
Although't the East China Sea (ECS) the subject to this, the affected South Korea and Japan.
Ii flying their the airplane war equipment and bombing the these countries, including America, against deklarasyong of China and sending of the end of his aircraft carrier in ECS.
In front of the new tensyong this in the North-west where only of the Philippines, it is not impossible that we are going to be affected by the conflict.
Magpapaibayo it more than the goals to complete the "minimum credible defense capability" of the Philippines.
This is in front of the can pangagailangang "brought by Yolanda" for the equipment of the AFP for HADR.
Why not again pulling each other's funds because it cannot be used more humanitarian Assistance the Disaster Response the kagamitang us is needed for the defense of our territory and for the preservation of the freedom and security in our the boundary.

I hope to see in our leaders the same needs and give priority to the strengthening of the pwersang magtatangggol of the country is not possible on other sectors of society.

We may be tap to become a force multiplier the commercial air-the sea lines in the date of the relief goods, medicine, medical professionals, and workers and things for the rehabilitation operations and Internally Displaced persons.
It is possible that the ship is owned by the Philippine Navy reservists like now.
May help the other countries in the medical, relief the rehabilitation operations.
But only the AFP is the only defend our country.

Should be delayed for a long time and it's only right that modernization of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.



