PAMANANG SINAYANG

It looks like it seems to forget that the people on the importance of the lessons of the EDSA People Power Revolution that happened last February 23-25, 1986.
Three days that that awakened the consciousness of the entire world to cast away from the care of blood that there is no to pour the dictator, former President Ferdinand E. Marcos, who was first sumupil in the country in a span of 20 years using a metal hand.
Because of the help and unity of the people, it is possible that managed to be the first that is impossible to kick out the dictator from power.
But 28 years have passed after the incident, it seems that no one can boast the Filipinos who became a good as a result of the historical event that.
Since then until this time of President Noynoy is nakalimang president that the country and it is not measured that the election is still sadlak, but the people in poverty.
Back to normal and not stopped even if one day the corruption in the other't other branches of the government and the evil spirits and attitude that we itinaboy back then, and it is as if a bit more now than before.
Nakapanghihinayang really because we do not have been used the opportunity that was brought by the people Power to together we helping from pagkakasadlak poverty and violence in our country.
After being happy when we moved out, Marcos, we are again goes back to normal when her-him and forgets the words help and unity.
That's why the result will continue to be embarrassed that we honor and celebrate the same as before the historical event and admitted that even if the government here.
Another it's sad, we have not maibahagi to the youth now the importance of the events, because we did not show a good as a result of this that we can boast to them.
It is really a waste the pamana of EDSA 1 because it was not a good model of the Philippines in the world even if it is also not of the country to follow in our footsteps.
This is only imitate Sunday, also in the Ukraine when they let us through the people Power their President Viktor Yanukovych is, because of the allegations of corruption and lack of ability to manage the government.
This is just a proof that even if the spirit of EDSA 1 in the Philippines, is still very much alive, she would be in a different country dreaming of the change.
It's just that we Filipinos have forgotten the EDSA 1!



