Umiigting fight against the K-to-12

Wake up early, the students to grade 10 of some National High School, but not in the familiar klasrum and building of their school they will go.
With their teachers, their babagtasin the streets, for the denial of the additional two years to implement the pending eskuwelang in relation to the program Kindergraten-to-12 Years (K-12) of the government.
The content of the successive the protests against the K-12, Emmanuel Asis, grade 10, and the president of the Supreme Student Government (SSG) of some.
For him, this is not the answer to the long and deep problems in the education of the Philippines.
Additional pain it to the poor.
"Poor students is the primary will be affected, will shoulder the additional the expenses," said "Asis.
In the K-12, two new year will be spent by students from Senior High School (SHS) after the mandatory Year in Kindergarten, six years in elementary (grade 1 to 6), and four years in Junior High School (Grade 7 to 10).
At the age of 15, Asis is one of the primary gather opinions about the program and gather in the his fellow students in their school.
He is with them to attend the very first gathering of students, teachers, parents and other sectors who are against the K-12.
Roll call consists of others't another school and community called to stop the K-to-12 Alliance aiming to lead the campaign to ipabasura the program pending implemented in the next year.
This "'y widespread association of parents, students and teachers, from level school until division first aiming to tipunin all from pinakamababang level until the highest," harvest Louie Zabala also, chairman of the Manila Public School Teachers Association (MPSTA).
Anna know Marinas, grade 10, and the president of the SSG in Sta.
Lucia High School in Quezon City, the lack of readiness of their school in the issue of facilities, and the teacher. "" The Higher sections, we are the modules, but what about "others?
What is the main lower sections that it is needed by the modules to motivate them in their studies? "According to Marinas.
The goal of the K-12 to make the Philippines globally competitive, that only the country just in Asia that there is a 10-year Basic Education program.
In spite of this, it is not the budget for education in 3 posiyento of GDP of the country, compared to 6.42 percent in Thailand and 5.94 percent in Malaysia.
I myself "'y worried about the additional expenses as a parent.
In the money only, it is, then "the daily expenses.
This is a new sacrifice the will of the students and parents, "said" Juver Marquez, who has two children to be hit by the K-12.
In the data of Alliance of concerned Teachers (ACT), national alliance of teachers in the country, the more than 1.95 million youth who is expected to enter the SHS, 0.8 million could only accommodate it in public SHS and the remaining almost a million will be in the private school.

Meanwhile, served the "voucher system" to give aid to the parents: Maglalaan until the government of P16,500 P22,500 for the students to be in a private SHS.
But there is no assurance that you will be accepted by all.
According to Marquez, who is also a teacher in some High School, "is not increasing our parents, the salary of the workers.
What is happening, it is the ability of the people to get the "service.
"If the K-12, the pagtungtong college (will be) to one pribilehiyo for our students.
What is the education is right, "said" Marinas.
Exam in the other hand, now have been felt by the teacher the danger of being carried by the implementation of the reforms.
Fear of teachers in the elementary school of their sites that construction of the SHS.
The already Elementary School in Quezon City, for example, is set to be transferred to the nearby Jose Abad Santos Elementary School because the SHS the school.
"We will be the sacrificial lamb.
Instead of it constructed the facilities,, what they are doing, will be transferred to (students) to be taken to save it.
"The parents and teachers, even if we complain, the said the principal nothing can be done because napagdesisyunan" "said that there is a teacher.
"If they are saying that there is a sufficient funds for the K-12, that is not.
They are looking for the school that they can lusawin "said, a teacher from General Licerio Geronimo National High School.

They also inaalma the lack of Pilot testing of the program that angkla in the transition period, 2016 until 2020.
Going to the transition period, the number of students of the college.
According to the initial data of the Commission on Higher Education, they are in danger of losing jobs that more than 78, 318 teachers and employees in the whole country.
But very down to the new data released in 25, 090 ikinababahala that the critics.
We kinukuwestiyon "" the basis of why they this "the figures," said ACT "Teachers Representative Antonio Tinio.
Remove the outlines of the reform the asignaturang Filipino, Literatura and Philippine Constitution in college.
Use the Mother tongue in the first baitang but it will be the English language panturo after the grade 3.
The "history as one we race and a country is isinasantabi and not ituturo in our youth.
That is the very our national language, "harvest Benjamin Valbuena, a teacher and national chairman of the ACT.
"Call for the students to dismiss the kolonyal edukasyong that is not responsible for needs of the Philippines," said "Asis.
First markahan those with Raymond Palatino, chairman of the New Nationalist Alliance-Metro Manila and former representative of the legislative chamber of Kabataan Party-list, is the pro-foreign oryentasyon of the K-12.
A reason in the implementation of the program the paglalangkap the students of training and the ability to get semi-skilled work.
According to Palatino, the technical-vocational courses which itinatanghal is responsible for needs of the strong-making of other countries - caregiving, plumbing, welding, housekeeping, tailoring and others.
Ideyal also said that the program magpapatapos of the students at the age of 18, when they have legal makapagtatrabaho.
Inaccurate "name the K-12, this is TESDA in High School.
Given skills our students not to be globally competitive magdevelop we and our own industry, but, but for the Manpower need of other countries, according to Palatino ".
Instead of "gagradweyt in March, we still have to wait for two years.
And then after the grade 12, are waiting to work with us.
How can they can say that now, even if it is "College graduate, no work.
The land is a call center agent, or the job that it is not appropriate to their course where they finished, "harvest Marinas.
As a resolution, the goal of the binuong national alliance pagkaisahin not only the ranks of teachers in the city, as well as in the province.
Earlier nagpasa the ACT of the petition that contains their complaints about the K-12.
Also lead a stop K-to-12 Alliance the pagbubuo of kurikulum for Basic Education - 'y this, they come for the teacher to others't other parts of the country and pass the thorough study.
They "us all together, in the Congress, in court, in the streets.
While there is still no decision (the Supreme Court), and even with a decision, we are not going to stop until we do not succeed, "'t harvest Valbuena.



