Mega rehab center umaalog in 127 patient (where the thousands of users and pushers to surrender?)

Posted by: Jerry Yap on February 14, 2017 in opinions

We are here now in generation and the time that a lot of the thinking of the problem than thinking of what is the solution.
When the start of President Rodrigo Duterte "Digong" his war against illegal drugs, many are asking, where to bring the claims that drug users and drug addicts when there is allegedly drug rehabilitation facilities in the government.
There was a solution President Digong ipatayo when the Mega Drug abuse Treatment the rehabilitation center (MDATRC) at Fort Magsaysay, Nueva Ecija with the help of a Chinese philantropist.
But not really losing criticisms or comment those who do not want to believe in the program of the President to itutumba the syndicate of illegal drugs in the country.
Before remove of President Digong Oplan Tokhang in the hands of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) many complained about the abuse of the other hands of the police.
Were those who kill suspected drug addicts and drug pushers are the hands of the syndicate.
In total as it reached 1,189,462 surrendered based on the report of the Rappler.
The number of those addicted to surrender, 1,110,113 while the pushers, 79,349.
Because it is not that the speed of Digong thinking and the his cabinet, here is the new problem in the operation of the MDATRC under the Department of Health (DOH), which is headed by Secretary Paulyn Jean Rosell-Ubial.

Almost 127 patient only from Bulacan and Nueva Ecija were being treated and being cared for the MDATRC said that there was a capacity to 10,000 patients.
Opening the MDATRC last 30 November 2016.
But until now 127 are still undergoing rehabilitation.
Secretary Ubial admitted that even if they are "caught flat-footed, unprepared" the surprised because of the speed of the operation and in the number of people who are pushing.
But he considers the drug epidemic in the country is a "" health said.
He said, "Abusers Are mental health patients WHO need to (be cured").
"Then", that's why the DOH is not to hasten the process has been delayed to put that those who have surrendered to the MDATRC addicts and pushers!?
"Is said to be the billions of funds, why not use to get the doctors, nurses, psychologists, social workers and therapists?!
All of the problems that will pop up there in MDATRC, they will be to President Digong before they think of a resolution?
Where is "those from DOH and DDB always pinadadalo on whatever seminar, and studies in other countries in relation to the illegal drug abuse?!
Why are they not put it there in MDATRC?
President Digong is the one who is going to be thinking if the problem is how they "?!
Can you really your work there in MDATRC, Secretary Ubial?
Oh, declares early while you still have a fund.
Maybe lift your hands if there is no funds then you sisigaw of "" I gave up!
Remember, Madam Secretary, "centerpiece" program of President Digong "that.
I just repeat, Madam Secretary, you can do the job here in MDATRC or not?!

HAPPY VALENTINE'S in your LAHAT!

Today, lamigan you made your head, because for sure, there will be the traffic especially in Metro Manila.
"Those lacking the budget, do not in his short time in Manila because BAWAL said.
So you umiba you place.
It is the same in the area that a date for a dinner.
It is better if and just to the lovers to lessen the vehicles on the road.
Anyway, whatever it is that you want to way of the celebration of the heart will be safe, be happy!
Happy Valentine's to all of you!

Secretary Jesus Dureza at Secretary lady Bello in Kapihan in Manila Bay

Tomorrow, again the uusok's about ibinasurang peace talks by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines (GRP) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines in the leading news Kapihan sa Manila Bay in Café Adriatico, Malate, Manila.
Will be guest as the spokesperson, Peace Process Secretary Jesus Dureza and Labor Secretary Silvestre "lady" Bello.
We Makipakuwentohan to Secretary Dureza the Secretary Bello while humihigop hot coffee together with the delicious breakfast in Café Adriatico.
Let's go!



