
You Sol, Ka Minda, Ka Agum: The martyr of South Quezon

The Bayan May 21, 2012

, Ka Sol, Ka Rechel and Ka Rodel, three of the nine the Pulang warriors and the kadre of the Partido, who was killed in a series of the fight in South Quezon last April.

You Sol.
, Pamela Jane "Ka Sol" Lapiz, rebolusyonaryong leader of the Partido and Pulang warriors, were killed in Barangay Sta.
Catalina, Lopez, Quezon on the morning of April 29.

Former students and activists, Ka Sol in the University of the Philippines-Los Baños last katapusang part of decades in 1980.
He is known by his fellow former classmates and fellow activists for being a good colleague and friend and caring leader.
He also recognized his creature awit and skill in paggigitara.

Ka sumanib Sol last 1995 in New Hukbong Bayan (BHB).

Many of those who went to his awards in UPLB, friends, relatives and became part of Ka Sol.
Have a chance to bagtasin became his life in the path of rebolusyonaryong struggle.
Nagsadokumento released a video that the life of Ka Sol in the countryside as rebolusyonaryong kadre of BHB and teachers of the masses't.

Wet the recognition of New Hukbong Bayan-Apolonio Mendoza Command (Quezon), the young Makabayan, of the Revolutionary Council of Trade Unions, the National Democratic Front and other rebolusyonaryong organization.

In a brave speech, the mother of Ka Sol is in full support for the path taken by the child as rebolusyonaryo.
According to him, even if he lost his beloved child, she did not regret for what you have done't as his contribution of the child in the town.
Was grateful for the second child of Ka Sol to attend.

Minda you.
, Rechel "Ka Minda" Tanteo workers, raised in Catanduanes.
In the poverty of life, he moved to Manila to makapaghanap of work when he finished the high school in 1995.
Temporarily, he studied the computer secretarial from his father in Diliman, Quezon City, but he did not respond to the course immediately makapaghanap of livelihood.

He worked as kontraktwal that workers in the other't other factories from 1996 until 2009.

Last eleksyong 2010, he became voluntarily organisador-kampanyador of progresibong partylist to the poor community in Laguna.
This is more caused his beautiful aktitud how to mingle with the masses indigent.
He became a member of the Revolutionary Council of Trade Unions and eventually, the Partido insist of the Philippines in 2010.

Last August 201O, Ka Rechel personally decided to take action in the countryside of Quezon.
Six months he nakipamuhay to the farmers and with the BHB organisa.
He decided to magpultaym in BHB last December 2011.

You Agum.
, Rodel "Ka Agum" Peñamante, a national minorya, is a native of Infanta, Quezon.
As poor farmers, early deeper towards of Ka Agum the poverty of life as well as the sobinismong caused by a malapyudal and malakolonyal to society.
He embraced gayo'y early in the kawastuan of armed revolution as the primary form of the struggle to move the real change that magtataguyod in kagalingan of poor people like him.

, Ka Agum and Ka Minda, those in relationship.
Finally not of the school, Ka Agum, but this did not became an obstacle in their relationship.
Ka Minda worked hard to teach him.

Together they decided to move when the entire time in BHB last December 2011 and was scheduled to they married this May.

Around 10: 00 in the morning of April 20 when kubkubin of more than 60 elements of 85th IB the house where he was staying of Ka Minda and Ka Agum in Barangay Peñafrancia, Lopez, Quezon.

They are included in the four warriors BHB killed by the berdugo.



