
9th IDPA, machinery of violence and of domination of the US-Base Laban in people

You Maria Roja Banua NDFP Bicol November 8.
2014

Repeatedly is "tortyur" as a task that a pasistang face and rules inside the mersenaryong hukbo of the 9th Infantry Division Philippine Army and the entire mersenaryong armed forces of the state.
It was still fresh in one of the most of the people, a tortyur bidyu sent to the account of former spokesperson of the National Democratic Front Ka Greg Banares in 2011 that happened in the treyning which launched in Camp Elias Angeles in Pili, Camarines Sur.

The incident happened last "tortyur bidyu" went out on social media in the past few days, in a training Camp or events in any detatsment of the ninth ID in Kabikolan proves that isinasalaksak in the consciousness of the treyni or soldiers were conducting a tortyur against whoever is considered their opponents.
It is surprising that does not have a data that up to of 111 cases of tortyur and 55 cases of extrajudicial killings that are mostly passed in a severe tortyur before being killed since the year 2010 to 2014 under the administration of Benigno Simeon Aquino.
In total in the Bicol only, it will take some't 1,424 in other cases of human rights violation of up to 16,232 the number of the victim civilians according to the human rights.

On the side of the rebolusyonaryong movement, a the higher rule of New Hukbong Bayan (BHB) the following the three (3) primary rule in discipline and eight (8) things that should remember.
The as-8 in the things that should remember, do not pagmalupitan "" the hostages.
The captives, those who are surrendered, were arrested and was put in a situation that is not makapanlaban in the process of the fight.
Also included in the hostages your arrested to be punished or imbistegahan based on the suspetsang there against rebolusyonaryong movement and anti-social.
In total, the captives, palalayain, aside from that there are only to be proven to be worthy of death.

It was proven that the experiences, who trusted fulfilling of New Hukbong Bayan in many times and the case of having the prisoners of the alituntuning digma to discipline.
Just a few of the this case is the care and the release of the prisoners who are 1st Lt Fidelino, PFC Nemenio 2004, Capt B and Cafgu Riquerey neo (2014).

So, we are calling for all of the youth who is the child of the farmers, workers and other kind of being oppressed in society who stand in your own makauring interest.
Use your intelligence, courage and ability to serve the public and rebolusyonaryong change that real hahango papatinding us in poverty and aaping experienced in the present.

For the soldiers of the children of the anakpawis and there is a good there is still another left in their hearts and sanity, turn your back to the service in reaksyunaryong hukbong sandatahan serving in that kind of naghaharing were taking advantage and when harm to our parents.

Long live the revolution!



