By George Nava lump on his breast-TRUE II December 6, 2016 can have breast cancer of the 19-year-old woman?
There is a nakapa because I was a lump on his breast on the side of the breast is my name withheld. - but it can happen because it is usually the old woman or adult Women the have breast cancer.
One of the symptoms of breast cancer, the hard lump on his breast but it hurts.
If it hurts, it's likely not breast cancer "painful because that's the only cancer in the late) of the disease.
Many Risk factors the breast cancer but even if you have this, it does not mean that you will have this kind of disease.
In fact, many Women WHO have breast cancer have no known Risk factors except that they Are females.
The things that associated with breast cancer, the following: Being a woman - the breast cancer is usually seen in the woman.
Age - affected are the woman 55 years old and above. * if you with history of breast cancer - there is a bigger chance that you will have this kind of disease in the other breast. * Family history - if there is a breast cancer the mother or sibling, there's A Big Chance that can be develop your this illness.
Inherited genes - May the Gene mutations like breast cancer Gene 1 (BRCA1) and breast cancer Gene 2 (BRCA2) that can manahin and may cause breast cancer.
This Can be passed on from parents to kids.
Radiation exposure.
If you are exposed to the radiation in the form of X-rays of the baby or young adult you, you have a develop breast cancer later.

Being fat - the woman who is overweight or obese, there are many hormone that hormone that may cause breast cancer.
Early mens - If your period started and a younger age (before 12), your Risk of breast cancer increases.

Late menopause - if there is menopause you after age 55, candidate for you breast cancer. * if you gave birth and again older age - Women WHO have children after age 35 have increased again for breast cancer.
Use of hormones - the women who are using hormone therapy medications that there is a hormone progesterone develop breast cancer.
Drinking of alcohol - the woman drunkard are prone to breast cancer.



