Myrtle, afraid to replace Maja Ka Tunying, nagnegosyo in front of the Kapuso By GORGY RULA July 31, 2016 in December that am graduating, Myrtle Sarrosa in the course broadcast Communication in UP Diliman.
The PBB winner that can be proud and he graduating Cum Laude because he maintain good that the performance of her in school even if she is busy in the taping of the super D and he will search in the school for promo by Sisters the Pantyliners sanitary napkin.
This is the reason why the Myrtle was hired new endorser of Sisters Napkins the Pantyliners in exchange of Maja Salvador.
I was scared when she found out, Myrtle Maja the changing.
But when he had explained to him that he needs to be in a new campaign of the said product that Sisters "School is Cool, he understood.
"We want to promote education," pakli young actress in the family.
Some schools the naikot of Myrtle with the group of Sisters of Megasoft Hygenic products.
They gave recognition to the outstanding students of the school.
They have been given by some of the Sisters "Choice Awards are Norala High School in South Cotabato and Gingoog City Comprehensive School in Misamis Oriental.
Nagkaisyu is having a branch of Ka Tunying's Café in the southern Avenue, QC in front of GMA 7.
Naintriga continue to transfer to the Kapuso network, Ka Tunying?
The doubts because we are in some blind items that she was referring to is about to the station after the contract.
Until December that only the contract of Ka Tunying in the ABS-CBN and the latest that we have heard, she did not even renew.
This was denied by the pamosong radio / TV personality.
According to Ka Tunying, "Ang ABS-CBN is very supportive of career I until now.
The good treatment to me by the company.
"We have no conversation yet about the contract.
The beauty because only now, they have trust in me.
It will be sure'm our relationship is still for a long time.
"Is going to the proximity of Ka Tunying's Café in GMA 7, maybe, just really good" the position and he did not have something to do with my career ".



