
Koordinadong military operations in Rizal, the NAAC-NPA!
Celebration of the 43 anniversary of BHB in the province, success!

Macario light (Ka Karyo) NPA Rizal (Narciso Antazo Aramil Command) April 08, 2012

Since last January 2, 2012 up to the present, being conducted by the military and police pwersang the eight gush of malakihang operation in the province of Rizal in outlines of Oplan Unity of regime US-Aquino.
A koordinadong campaign of paglipol against New Hukbong Bayan (BHB) launched by the forces of the 16th IB-PA, 76th IB-PA, 59th IB-PA under the 2nd ID-PA including the Maneuver Battalion of the SAF-PNP.
Where the operation of the town of Montalban, San Mateo, Baras, Tanay and the cities of Antipolo who continue to cause damage in life and properties of the people, including the farmers and setler even the ranks of the national minoryang Dumagat and Remontado.

Actively fighting and taktikal offensive the response of this of Narciso Antazo Aramil Command (NAAC) - NPA-Rizal.
This is also a response to the request of the masses to the erya of the NPA will be punished the armed forces of the reaksyunaryong state of a widespread violation of human-people.
Most of all, brought it in the 43 anniversary of the NPA.

February 15, 2012 - * * had a mis-encounter in the Sto.
Niño, Tanay, Rizal, the troops of the 16th IB-PA and 59th IB-PA that resulted in the death of a upisyal and another three others.
To pagtakpan the fight between them, is sent out from the 2nd ID in midya and the public that this encounter between the NPA and the forces of the AFP.

February 19, 2012 - * * of a iskwad were disappointed by the NPA the attempted to attack of a platung troops of the 16th IB-PA headed by Lieutenant Bagbag in Sitio Kinabuan, Sta.
Ines, Tanay, Rizal.
First shot of the NPA were seen papasalakay that enemy.
Immediately hit in front of the ranks of the enemy while some of her colleagues are retreat, and recklessly fired even from far away in the position of his companions.
Seriously wounded in this fight, Private First Class Agcaoili while there is no kaswalti on the side of the BHB.

March 3, 2012 - * * inisnayp and hinaras of the troops of the NAAC-NPA the detachment of 59th IB-PA at Sto.
Niño, Tanay, Rizal.
In fear of the soldiers and CAFGU and on the presumption that was on his way to their camp the NPA, tails were sagging that nanakbo and left their detachment.
This is just returned to make sure that there is a far after the NPA.
In the report of the people in the area, one was killed and three were injured in the ranks of the soldiers.

* March 23, 2012 - (Gabi) * shot by a Tim of NAAC-NPA were members of the 59th IB-PA in their detachment in Calawis, Antipolo City.
Two were injured in the operation.

March 30, 2012 - * * Hinarass of a Tim of NAAC-NPA pinagsanib that the troops of the 16th IB-PA and 59th IB-PA in their detachment in Sitio Apya, Calawis, Antipolo City.
The three soldiers were wounded in the operation.

The taktikal opensibang that this is the bumigo in eight gush of koordinadong military campaign.
The pagkabisa in tereyn and huge support of the masses in the provinces nagtiyak that the successful to the NPA in the province and safe from any mishap the units of NAAC-NPA.
Together with the and actively fighting, nailalarga BHB activity of the people in the middle of the attack of the enemy.
Together with the success of the tasks that the success of the military claimed in a mass.

Also nailunsad successful in the celebration of the 43 anniversary of BHB on March 29, 2012 in the territory of the demokratikong Gubyernong Bayan in the province.
Responded by more than 100 people including from kalunsuran and baseng masses in the countryside.
This is in the middle of the loss Nailunsad gush of military operations malakihang failed to stop the celebration of the anniversary in the area.

The success of BHB in the province is clear that use to determine the outcome of Oplan Unity of regime US-Aquino.
Like the fierce Oplan, Laya 1 & 2 of the regime Arroyo, who did not succeed and completely failed, the Oplan Unity that aims to crush the rebolusyonaryong movement will also be disappointed.
The NAAC-NPA-Rizal, magpupunyagi to push through with the digmang town that part of the whole effort to kamtin in the national where the estratehikong pagkapatas from estratehikong depensiba.

* live the the 43 anniversary of the new hukbong BAYAN!
Long live the party communists of the Philippines!
Long live the sambayanang * ourselves!



