Denden Lazaro: Libero Queen By Elech Dawa November 19, 2016 always see in front row back, Dennise "Denden" Lazaro when he was playing volleyball.
This'y because he is "" libero.
Strong, Maliksi and alert the 5-foot-5, Dennise, known in the nickname Denden so that he is the sinasandalan of his ally when it comes to the defense.
It is hard work of a libero because sometimes for him to be good depends on the set of setter in the Spikers.
"Good should be the first ball to not suffer the" setter to set play. "Nakangiting Denden said to finish the course BS Biology at Ateneo.
Former Ateneo defense specialist, 24-Year-Old Denden and is now playing in BaliPure that komopo of the third place in the recently concluded Shakey's V-League season 13 Reinforced Conference.
And because of his skill in defense, he was Queen of the libero, but how can nahilig in sport is Dennise.
I want to be "Actually A Pilot case of the poor vision I 20-20." Natawang statement of Denden.
I started playing volleyball "when I was a kid, my mom has taught the then I tried-out for the varsity team then I was recruited when I was in fourth Year High School by coach Roger Gorayeb.

First became Middle hitter last High School, Denden before the libero.
To prove the being skilled in his position when he mahirang Best Libero in Shakey's V-League.
"The happiness when they expected me to the defense, that's why I want to make them proud that I can do the best for them I". "Of Denden according to naglarong libero in Youth U-16 Girl's National team in 2008 Asian Youth Girls U16 Championships.

Current itinutuloy of Dennise the double degree in Doctor of medicine and Masters of Business Administration at Ateneo School of medicine and Public Health.
It is a big help to the libero, a key for the success of the team so it should be fully and have a strong chest so as not to be afraid to salagin the bolang sumasagitsit going to your location.
"Work it, it really you made the" yourself even if you are having a hard time, you should be motivate "the yourself, you need to your loved ones that you are doing". "End of Denden.



