The success of the NPA is the success of the kind of farmers

The national Ipinapaabot Katipunan of the Magbubukid in the southern Katagalugan (PKM-TK), kasaping organization of the National Democratic Front, the greeting of the rebolusyonaryong Ka farmers in successful defense of Apolonio Mendoza Command of the New People's Army (NPA) against the operation of the 74th Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army (IBPA) in Catanauan, Quezon.

Fourteen 14 soldiers of the 74th IBPA were reported killed in the 15 minutes fight this May 31.
Assured by the Pulang Commander and warriors of the NPA, not "walk in the park" reaksyunaryong sandatahang the forces of the regime US-Aquino in the province.

In the past almost a year of take longer and widespread offensive of Oplan Unity, the people in the province of Quezon of much that brutalidad of eight (8) batalyong regular and pwersang paramilitar of the AFP / PNP and CAFGU that konsentradong nakadeploy in Catanauan and 21 towns of the third and fourth district of Quezon.

The whole pagmamayabang that ibinando of the ahenteng more-psywar of this regime them might "nabihag't" mind that the heart of the people in the province.

Not only the NPA the target of the take longer and widespread deployment of the military and police, but the brave horrifying, the citizens of their right to ekonomya and politics.

The 74th IB-PA is the primary involved in the violation of human people in the province.
Featured their beating of civilians, illegal arrest and pagkakampo in elementary school.

Recently, the 74th IB-PA the threats and violence in the nakawelgang Filcoco, workers in a factory of Coconut coir and fiber in the town of Catanauan.

In spite of this pasistang attack of the citizens will continue to nagpupursige the rebolusyunaryong mapangibabawan movement in the province, the threats and fraud that inihahasik of the armed forces of the state.

Because here is that you are enjoying the thousands of poor farmers in the province, the success of deka-decades of the launching of rebolusyong agraryo.

Humuhugot of inspiration the rebolusyonaryong movement farmers in the success of the NPA.
Even more, the kumpyansya of the masses and kapabilidad farmers in the decision of the NPA to face the forces of the AFP, which will be the primary instrument of pro-Lord maylupang pagkakait states in the legitimate rights of the farmer for the land mabubungkal.

Long live the New Hukbong Bayan!
Continue to fight and upset Oplan Unity of regime US-Aquino II!
And ipagtagumpay to push the Rebolusyong Agraryo!



