
The monster in the brotherhood

Is the report that four students is the new victim of hazing of a fraternity.
One, Guillo Cesar Servando, 18, died after the hardship of did not kayanin hurting him.
There is a lead the Manila Police District to catch the held a hazing to Servando, sophomore student of De La Salle-College of Saint Benilde.
The three companions of Servando, students of the said school, is recovering in the Philippine General Hospital.
Life that they witness to solve the case.
They should be strictly guarded by the authorities and maisailalim in the witness protection program.
According to the police report, after the hazing down, they are just in a condominium in Manila.
Kapatirang Alpha Kappa Rho (AKHRO that) are recruiting members of the victims.
During the start of the school year or not passing the classes in a whole year, is impossible to no one student naiuulat victim or killed in hazing.
At this time, the violence of the youth, not just "can be seen in the streets, but also to the school and the university.
Even the sororities are passing through cruel ritual.
There are many reasons why there are young sumasali in the fraternity: To be cool; magkarooon of new friends; and have a protection to bullying by some groups.
't although there is a law against hazing that RA 8049 passed in 1991 after the death of Leni Villa, a student of Ateneo de Manila School of Law, the violent and violent murder under the said ritual.
Even the hazing in the military and police Academy is end.
It is said that this is one of the reasons why some of the nagsisipagtapos in the Philippine Military and National Police Academy becomes violent, cruel, months and come to a point of violating human rights in service.
The widespread hazing even in the institution that was said to have a high level of teaching.
According to Senator Tito Sotto, who will die in the hazing would not resolve if the Department of Justice (DOJ) the nakabimbing case here.
None of the previous "hazing incidents have been solved.
The DOJ should MORE exert effort in the prosecution of these cases.
Otherwise, there will be MORE "deaths to come.
There is no ability or just doesn't want to be a state the people responsible for the hazing.
The fraternity, particularly in the legal profession, will continue to be punished pagtangging the "" sibling who was convicted of husgado.
The case of Leni Villa, it lasted for 20 years before her family claimed justice.
The violence and cruelty should not be ipino promoted to the group or brotherhood.
Should the management of the university and student councils in the formation of advocacy and campaigns that one to instruct the students to abstain from the monster that brotherhood.
Stop the hazing!



