Ordinary citizens, at stake in the peace talks of GPH, NDFP

"If we fought, we are bad.
If we just keep quiet in a corner, is still "us.
This is the treatment of the soldiers of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in the Aetas in their community in Subic, Zambales, according to Nilo, a leader-indigenous people who do not want to naming for their own security.
In Tales from the ground: Compelling Reasons to Resume Peace talks, only one Nilo in the ordinary citizens to horrifying of the return of the peace talks between the Government of the Republic of the Philippines (GPH) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).
In the said porum of Pilgrims for Peace and Sulong Cahrihl last March 19, insisted that others't other sectors are respond of sinserong conversation of the two sides to meet the root of the armed rivalry.
It is common to the story of Nilo.
Kidnapped and and he was imprisoned for the soldiers in paghihinalang a member of the New People's Army (NPA).
'y allegedly started when they put the harassment of the group, the government of the indigenous people of Batiawan, to fight for the lupaing ninuno pangangamkam here in the middle of the threat of a businessman.
"We just want to insist on our rights.
But we're accused "NPA, he said.
The same victims of human rights violations is leading the call for president.
Benigno Aquino III, who is a serious to go back to the peace talks in NDFP.
According to the NDFP, he was once again nabalaho because of because of the withdrawal of GPH from before these komitment rebolusyonaryong in the government.
Borador for truce and Alliance in the statement of the NDFP recently, he explained how did not push through the one to "historic meeting" of President Aquino and Jose Ma.
Sison, tagapagtatag of communist Party of the Philippines, in Hanoi this year.
Sek himself.
Ronald Llamas, political adviser of the president, the nagpanukala in a meeting last at Amsterdam last November 2012.
Promises of Llamas that palalayain, Alan Jazmines and other konsultant of NDFP, and that will be the candidate, Jazmines in the said meeting.
According to Jasig (Joint Agreement on Security the immunity Guarantees insisting the NDFP), the release of GPH in 14 detained konsultant.
In 2011 who filed the NDFP to Aquino of borador for a general declaration for truce the Alliance, under the so-called Special track of the peace talks.
The Special track is the negotiation between the two sides to track the peace talks.
But according to the NDFP, until now, there is still no isinusumite the GPH that point by-answer to this point.
Instead of just, gave a short message that is pushing for a ceasefire when there is no clear basis.
To talk about the iminungkahing meeting of Aquino and Sison in Hanoi, gathered in agreement with two sides in The Hague last December 17-18.
Who filed the GPH of borador that Common Declaration for National Unity the A Just Peace.
Kinritiko of NDFP some of the point of it, including the lack of clarity on how the bubuuin Committee on National Unity, Peace and Development that magsusumite of the proposed sosyo-ekonomiko and pampulitikang reforms.
Itinatakda of GPH an immediate ceasefire, while he is still not what's presented the various reform to be done.
Meanwhile, the NDFP nagsumite of his own borador that General Declaration for National Unity the A Just Peace.
This clarified that the committee for the reform society bubuuin of the same number of representatives from the two sides.
Also have laid out the basis of the truce and Alliance.
Included here are pagbabasura in all of the equal to the agreement and tratado that is against the national soberanya.
As well as the real reform in the land and national industriyalisasyon.
"The Rich natural resources of the Philippines, the expertise the Labor of the Filipinos the expanded market due to such Land reform shall be mustered for economic development, according to the NDFP" borador.
Also stated that will establish the mayor projects in the 11 industry, including the industry of metallurgy, electronics, energy, petrochemicals, Food processing, and others.
What will be the hatian owned by big industry, 20 percent of the government, 40 percent in the local invest, and 40 percent of foreign invest.
While the marginalized and moderate-size business is only for the local invest.
Along with the program in reforms to land the project livelihood in the community to raise the production in agriculture, while he was just starting the project for the industry.
Pagkabalaho of "historic meeting" but in the said meeting in The Hague, the representatives of GPH that they are not awtorisado of President Aquino to sign any agreement.
Became elusive also Llamas when asked about his promise of NDFP palalayain, Jazmines and other konsultant-not they are awtorisado to talk about the kind of things.
Again gathered the two sides last February 25 and 26 at Amsterdam.
The NDFP prepared for a Draft Communiqué for the meeting of Aquino and Sison in Hanoi.
But the GPH immediately said that they have no mandate to talk about the said borador.
Also Naghapag of his own borador declaration that the GPH, that the NDFP kinritiko again.
A priority of the critics of the NDFP the placing of the unilateral ceasefire, and indefinite that in front of the declaration, who was allegedly'y destroys the whole outlines of the negotiation.
Also stated the existence of Final Peace Agreement, according to the NDFP will be neglected in regular track of the peace talks, where he needs to talk about the pampulitika magapag and sosyo-ekonomikong magapag reforms before the cessation of hostilities or pagsasantabi of weapons.
The NDFP also said that she does not want to use the words of GPH "true reform agraryo" and "national industriyalisasyon" 'y because there is a trace of ideology (ideologically charged).
The peace talks collapsed when the NDFP mapagtanto who offered only the meeting in Hanoi of Sison and Aquino to force it their side to agree to the declaration of the GPH about "not prinsipyadong ceasefire" in a span of just one or two meeting.
Also deklarasyong this of the government and the word truce Alliance, which will be the first proposed by the NDFP.
NDFP: Not closing the door

"Now is challenging the government to study the two borador that naiprisenta last February.
We have not yet closed the door in the peace talks.
Just need to show (of GPH) their sincerity, "expressed in porum Randy Malayao, konsultant of NDFP.
He said, the lack of sincerity the imprisonment of his fellow konsultant.
Malayao was convicted of more than two years, and Filipinos were liberated only recently because the court decided that there is no basis for the case against him.
Also invited the GPH in said porum, but there were no representante this arrives.
Still included in the ordinary citizens who led the return of the peace talks, Estrelita Bagasbas, leader of the poor community in North Triangle that dinedemolis to tayuan of sentrong for business.
He recounted, they were not able to sleep well at night in fear that they would just suddenly dadamputin of the police.
He's calling out of "justice for the poor," ipinagkakait that the government.
Two relatives of the victims of the murder and kidnapping spoke also for the ensure respect for human rights.
Died last July 2011, the wife of Marilou Mariano of Doña Remedios Trinidad, Bulacan, when shot at by the soldiers of the AFP their hut, in spite of their scream that they'y civilians and not NPA.
Also injured in the incident, his son, Norman, but after this, he filed a case in court of illegal possession of Firearms and frustrated murder case.
Meanwhile, continued, the wife of Marites Chioco Rolly Panesa, a security guard who was kidnapped last October 2011 in the wrong to think that he is a superior leader of the communist Party of the Philippines.
Ask for help, Mariano and Chioco to achieve justice for their relatives.
Promise of Malayao, they continue to obey the kakalampagin GPH before these komitment in the peace talks, just like the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights, the International humanitarian law.
As well as, he is going to be a basic reforms that will solve the root of poverty and armed rivalry.



