Drew consciousness

Marvin Joseph E. Ang knew him in the nickname that "Pipoy" to his family, friends and colleagues in the community.
Like the other children, it is just simple, is also the one who makes him - playing Patintero, education, and help to the parents of the work that the farm.
Currently studying, Pipoy in alternative Learning Center for Agricultural the Livelihood Development (ALCADEV).
The schools built by the indigenous people for the education of their children, especially't not the public education by the government in their community.
Particularly tuon in their kurikulum the agriculture because this is the main livelihood of the indigenous communities in the countryside.
For them, the land was "" life.
Wake up, Pipoy of the 4: 00 in the morning to maghandang entered.
When the 5: 00 in the morning, along with his classmates, he will go to the farm for their asignaturang agriculture.
Two hours, they will be taught by their teachers about the planting, harvesting, and other activities related to agriculture.
7th and half of the morning, they will go directly to their school to study about the history, values Education, and Technology the Home Economics.
He also likes the drawing.
He immediately iginuguhit the if any imaheng mangati in his brain - the ibong flying in himpapawid, the rays of the sun that lumalagos by the branch't plants, their field in the time of their harvest - whatever just't attractive in the eyes.
He even, nakapaskil on the wall of their klasrum some of his friends likhang-art.
But others who are all the sudden Bitag pried into the military in their community.
Through the Oplan Unity of former President Benigno Aquino III that aims to arrest them the rebels in the countryside, the level of the murder, pandarakip, and kick out to the indigenous people in their land ninuno.
It seems like it was only yesterday when the incident of Pipoy to commemorate more than a year has passed - how killed their leaders in the community who are Dionel Campos and Datu Bello Sinzo in himself in their front.
Also found dead, Emerito Samarca, the Executive Director of ALCADEV Faculty, inside the room.
Nakagapos the hands of this, there is a tagos on the head by a bullet and there is a trace of the beating.
I even dream "organizer of this [Lakbayan] so that if there are even try to get the land we, I defended my companions".
Greatly affected what happened in the consciousness of Pipoy.
This is also the urged him to be able to continue to gumuhit - he often kathain in his drawing the people who raised the fist and their late Datu as protectors of their community.
Returned to their lives in their place now - that they are able to return to their land and fixing their studies.
Slowly, he has been reached her dream to finish studies.
But for him, it will not end here everything.
Continue the fight for Pipoy, "in the presence of the military, and we can return to our former" lifestyle.



