
The desire for things or people

Posted by penpowersong

The desire in BAGAY or is a good man Ni Apolinario Villalobos

Not all about something or people, they are favoring him us.
In the fruits and vegetables, there are parts they we do not eat, and also to fish and meat.
There are attitude is also our husband that we do not want but pinagtitiyagaan is the only dealing with them even if there is a corresponding punishment because of the pledge of promises and signed contract.
There are attitude our children that we have not want, no choice but to accept that we, the whole character because they released by their mother,.... return it is impossible that they were still in the womb.
Even in our own personality, there are also characteristics we do not want to us, which is why we are envious of others.
For example, we do not want our flat nose, which is why we are envious of the other has a sharp nose, our pagkapandak, which is why we are envious of tall, and others.

Even in the country where we were born, there are things that we do not want, which is why we do not want to go back to, but because it is required to put this in the application form and bio-data, we can't do anything but really writing.
It is the same in religion because there are catholic church, they do not want to go to church itself... because they do not want the style of the priest in the sermon, but because it is a Catholic, no choice but to accept that was just Father, because they might be angry, God.
Work is the same in the workplace... for example, we do not want because many mosquitoes, and the boss, is that it is a bad attitude is about the face!... no choice but we still because it is hard to find a job now.

That is also the should we see for DUTERTE.
We do not want the each cursing but because he wants to remove the vices of drugs in the Philippines or even lessen stocked of big-LIKE politicians, we have a lot of him.
Even if he are gangsters should have been safe or BUTANGERO, okay, politicians, because of the courage to ITO the fear of the animal did a lot of the rapist, DRUG pushers, DRUG lords and others who criminals.

While we are on top of the world, we do not like that 100 percent.
Sometimes even God to make all of us pinagkakatampuhan, because of the calamity.... and we get mad at him when the nagsunud bad luck in our life, then the question of, there's a "WHY, Lord"?

Who now unfair?... the God that it is not fair in giving the blessings?... Duterte who is being blamed for the death of the drug pushers when-estapa payment taken from drug pusher, that's why they are binalutan of packing tape on the face and full of stab wounds or showered with bullets?

So there will not be a problem, avoid they like a things or people who are all!... to be disappointed, if not totally who the pain that will be felt.



