
Cavalier's Family Sportsfest: Remembering the PMA traditions

One of the annual activity mixed with the members of the Philippine Military Academy alumni Association Incorporated (PMAAAI), the Cavalier's Family Sportsfest each other where the the graduates of the PMA with their family for a day that bonding activity.

It is always fun games will be experienced in palarong, but everyone graduates (also known as Cavaliers) is excited to be with and take part of this.
Because of this, the first objective, and fun that next to win!

When he held the sportsfest yesterday (December 8, 2013), I had the chance to join because my reassigned, in Camp Aguinaldo.

Many are 'come-ons' why we sumasali here and there, including the anxiety of the ordinary experiences that road when we are still cadets of the PMA.
The tradition that this is nagpapaigting in a good relationship of the Cavaliers on others't different sectors of society, especially on in active service.

Best Company

The Cadet Corps Armed Forces of the Philippines is composed of eight company called according to alphabetic designation this: Alpha, Bravo, Charlie, Delta, Echo, Foxtrot, golf and the Hawk Company.

There are also have their own nickname the companies of the Corps: Alpha Indians, Bravo Bulls, Charlie Wildcats, Delta Bull Dogs, Echo Eagles, Foxtrot 'Cools', golf Gallants and Hawk Hunters.

One of the severe taught to us the sense of loyalty and integrity that apparently in a simple fight to be 'Best Company' our company.
As long as there are to ask which is the best companies, of course Hawk Company that!
From the Hawk (if we ask)

On the cadets were still, there is a regular the contests (Best-Best competition) that he really is the announcement of the company to win.
There is a so-called Superintendent's Cup, Commandant's Cup, Jurado Cup, and even Close Order drill Best Company streamer.

Whoever nakakasungkit an award, of course they are the ones who have the bragging rights and nagki-claim as' Best Company '.

Because of this, his pagalingan the companies in terms of academic performance of, to discipline (conduct), the pagalingan in the field of sports and even in the parked.

Fun Games

In disenyo of fun games, many see the elements of the tradition and training that we passed the PMA.

Were later on assembled the graduates according to Company where they graduate.
As a member of the Hawk Company in the span of four years that I am studying the PMA, of course I am there are included in the so-called 'Hunters'.

Halo-halo the PMA classes there and the most senior is the CRSAFP Commander, Brigadier General Rolando Jungco that he nahirang as Team Captain or Company Commander.

Like a member of the game, he also mentioned that we have a Muse because in contests that if it is called the Best Company Muse.
If not only to be a good child of General Jungco, maybe the man who will be our '' Muse.

Samo't are fun games that up to seven Events.
Most of them were relay and paunahan in pagsagawa of 'task'.

Sometimes complicated pinapagana the Rules but the imagination how 'makalamang'.
There is no misunderstanding because the are after all, the game to be with in the game.

It is just simple, but many escape the our fun games.
We do not set the preparation in our yourself through the right stretching exercises.

We are estima the katunggaling Companies.
Who is the only if there are many members who still physically fit, especially the upperclassmen.
That's why the Sir, and also exercise a time!

I was forced to escape and to perform the 'mase-mase' (the exercise that part of the Army calisthenics that is a form of punishments in the making of the lies in the PMA).
I remembered that for plebo pinaparusahan of my Squad Leader if unable to memorize the Guard Details.

This is pagalingan in Company call using the sound of animals or a bird.
Of course, we Hawk.
What?
Uwaaaaaaaaaaaak!
Uwaaaaaaak!

In a game for your 'Fix bunks', paunahan to fix the bed.
The PMA, the cadets, am teaching of the highest standards of discipline and with the right to fix the bunks.
Should be no problem, there is a 45 35 degrees to Tupi, the size of the pagtupi baligtad and should not be the mark of the PMA.
Understand each other all graduates how he is doing this because the same standards, which was passed from one Generation to another.
Oopps, thing't forget to fold the towel!

Of-review the way to fix the bunks in the fastest time.
This is also Pinapagana Unity.

Because with us in the Top performers to fix the bunks, we nagpakuha proud of the picture in our bunks.

Dressing call in the formation of pagbihis mahabol pabilisan for a short time given.
This is included in the training of new recruits where as plebo paunahan, we change your uniform, and the pahuli-end, there is a punishment 'mase-mase'.
You, why did you dressing up the uniform inside a minute?
And, change-palit of different uniforms that binibilangan of '10 counts'?

Now, don't you be surprised why the soldiers quickly eat and also quickly dressing up!

In the bath robe didn't win, three robes and trot the were going to the bathroom.
This is the penalty Modification 'Wear 100 bath robes! "If caught by the upperclass the plebo that improper uniform in the toilet.
Don't forget to greet the upperclassman and side step?

It is a didn't win that I joined last because there are more selfie pic in Sundial before he ran and magsampay of the nilabhang uniform.
Well, these in the time of smartphones.
Selfie-selfie we also a time!

This is magkandarapang magsampay of labada if it to catch up the 'Attention call' for a formation.
The lampa-lampa magtu-touring is also a time.

As they say, "We DID Our Best but IT wasn't Good enough"!.
When we peek at the official scores, we defeated by the Bull Dogs 2pts to maagaw by the crown as Best Company in Cavalier's Family Sports Fest!

We are still celebrated shown because of the Hawk Company, we still '' fierce and always ready to show the competitiveness even in fun games or in our service to the Armed Forces of the Philippines.

You Delta Bull Dogs, watch out for our sweet revenge in 2014!



