
Locked in Riyadh, home of

From the Facebook account of Bantay OCW, send a message, Joseph Ledesma (JL) who are currently detained in Riyadh, K.S.A. five years, he said, he will be in Saudi since last 2009.
One't working only half a year before was JL in the restaurant of her employer, Tahel Alamri.
She complained, it is not right to their pasuweldo and not the coordination that their contract.
Good in the first month their suweldong received, but when it is not that the course of business, until the loss that and completely closed, they have no suweldong recovered.
Not given their salary of the last month in the restaurant.
Until pinagtrabaho this JL in another restaurant, the Olivetto and there is an agreement that, according to him, the manager of the restaurant and his former boss, Taher.
Nagkabayaran, according to him, but he still kinakaltasan pinagtrabaho that his salary and he was also not formal transfer of Olivetto caught because he could not fulfill it, he said, the former boss until he finally said that the new restaurant.
Find the other employers this JL and it took him more than two years but he also seems iqama, the working permits in Saudi.
After his contract, he talked to the former employer, Taher pauwiin that he was just in the Philippines.
But his employer, should be ", he said, he will pay of JL because he paid his iqama, plane drifted ticket to Saudi, as well as the ibiniyad in Olivetto restaurant.
But of JL protested because it all, he said, the expenses mentioned by her employer is binawas all of his salary when he worked in two restaurant.
Year 2011 when asked help from Labor, JL.
Illegal staying there so he TNT, he said, that he is.
But, he said, asking for money to her by the former employer, Taher.
That's why he worked and the time when there is a nagnais to get to him, nakapagsimula to save, in order to have enough value to go back to the Philippines.
According to JL, they went to of Taher in Ras Tanurah and there he had given the money for a former boss, because he promised pauuwiin and he will drive at the airport, in exchange for his exit Clearance.
The belief that it is believe that tutupad JL in the agreement, Taher.
But instead of at the airport, from Dammam jail he brought and after that, he was transferred to Riyadh Jail.
There are two (2) a month in jail, JL and he wants to take care of the his case there again with his family for a very long time when he did not see.
According to JL, his last news from our embassy, there is exit Clearance him.
It means he was given by the former sponsor of exit Clearance who they are apply for exit visa.
The Bantay OCW sent to the office of Secretary Rosalinda Baldoz DOLE this case.
Immediately act, Labor Attache David Des Dicang and through his communicating with our Labor Attache of Riyadh, Labatt Resty dela Fuente, announced that he will be able to return home last Wednesday (April 2, 2014) our Kabayan and now with his family.
Thank you very much for your continued to that in the case that brought up by Bantay OCW.



