
Poverty, causing the increase of crime November 12, 2014 Written by Vic Reyes Published in opinions Read: 8055 we still many citizens who are not thinking but sow fear and anxiety to the public.
They are spreading rumors through social media.

Recently reported on social media that there is said to be the confirmed cases of Ebola in the Philippines.
Like what is expected, the gossip gave fear in many people in the country.
With the number of netizens, including the child, the rumor spread quickly.
It is natural to be afraid that the public, everyone knows that the deadly disease Ebola.
In fact, kill the scarcity of health 5,000 people in some countries.
Most of those who died in the disease of Ebola in West Africa.
What you are not going to be afraid, there is still no cure except for the said disease, almost half of the perched on by the virus, natitigok.
The nakakaalarma, we have lots of workers who are working in the whole world, including in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea.
It was said by Justice Secretary Leila de Lima that can be imprisoned by the spread through social media of wrong report about Ebola virus.
De Lima has ordered the National Bureau of Investigation to look for the people at the back of the spread of the report in the Philippines to the Ebola virus.
Denied by the Department of Health (DOH) said online report.
A few days, who became viral the report.
Added to the fear of the people is the scheduled arrival of the Filipino UN Peacekeeper from Liberia.
The peacekeeper, should immediately be brought to Caballo Island where it quarantine of 21 days.
After the 21 days, then they only pauuwiin in their house.
The quarantine aims to ensure that the UN peacekeeper from Liberia, there is no Ebola virus.
After the 21 days will be given "Heroes" Welcome "of the Armed Forces of the Philippines the peacekeeper as recognition in their" outstanding accomplishments "in Liberia. * * * in the remaining 19 months of the Aquino administration, maybe maige ituon that only the attention of pagbaka in poverty, unemployment and the incessant increase in the price of goods.
We should not forget that poverty is the number one reason why the number of crimes in the country.
Many people are their proper minds of the crime because there was no maipakain and buy medicine for their loved ones.
't as long as there is the poverty and lack of work is hard for the government to make the increase of crime and cases of corruption.
Because of poverty and lack of good work in the country, many of our countrymen, are being forced to find work in other countries.
One more painful truth, many parents, especially in the countryside, the naguudyok in their daughter who already married or search for mapangasawang foreign.
Sometimes, we can't blame the young woman who agree with them in the old foreigner.
Even if you are educated, you will find it hard to work well and good salary.
If you find a job, contractual.
The rare nareregular at work.
The new employee will be completed before the six months, tanggal him to not be permanent.
We repeat, as long as there is the't poverty, there are also others't other crime.
We are right, President Aquino?
The complaint at reaction: MMDA, maybe it can have a footbridge here in EDSA / Muñoz.
In front of the chapel of Iglesia ni Cristo.
Concerned senior citizen of QC.
I believe that will arrive in the judgement by three liar that senador.-SC in Sampaloc, Manila.



