Is still a good teacher and gun

Rebyu of the teacher and gun from EB Maj that sinulat of Chris Millado and dinirehe of Andoy Ranay.

Often cannot the "teacher and gun" of Chris Millado as one of the klasikong Dula that against diktadurang US-Marcos and one of the klasikong dulang patriotic.
When aired this year, there is a friend told my watch, because supposedly it and nakakaiyak even.
That is why I watched, and I did not fail.
Formed the "teacher and gun" of five stories of the people who fought in the dictatorship, particularly in the struggle when gunshots was Senator Ninoy Aquino date August 21, 1983.
In her message in souvenir program of Dula, said that his writings Millado this time in 1984, even if the UP School of Economics is saying that binabayo of a great crisis the country.
Others't in different parts of the Dula the palatandan of time: Lakbayan, August Twenty-One Movement, yellow confetti in Makati, the kamisetang in the plea boykoteo in the election and the picture's priority, and others.
But it's better to Dula, meaningful stories are in particular time they inilalarawan.
The first, about the moments of the siblings farmer activists and workers unyonista't protesters in Lakbayan when the latter in Metro Manila.
Second, the pagkukwento of the woman Itawis, a national minorya, with the help of a paring kumukupkop to him about the murder of the military to his father in the basis of this accusation members of the New People's Army or NPA.
The third, the conversation of a socialite in his house about his great pakikibakang anti-Marcos.
The fourth, the fetch of a female activists in the body of his wife NPA, the grieving for his death, and knowledge of this.
And the fourth, the arrest, interrogation and pagtortyur of the police in a student activists.
The scythe of it kapuri-reputation in Dula, the script.
Kongkreto and life the character, the stories of their lives, and the story of the life that they inilalahad.
Millado "Lahat said, the character... is based on the aktwal years that I have met, nakatrabaho, naengkwentro when a moment, read and heard the secret meeting, piketlayn, long drew, demonstration, pakikipamuhay, and barikada".
Sharp magmasid seen by the people, Millado and he sank in their joy, grief, love, drama, kakwanan, kakengkuyan and other emotions.
This is probably the teacher "" aspect of the title.
The good but also in Dula, helping each other on how the part personal and the political - not only in the komitment pakikibakang anti-dictatorship, but the struggle for rebolusyunaryong change of society.
This is probably the gun "" aspect of the title.
Dula entered the personal magpakaligaw and not to be imprisoned for paglingkurin here, but the content of it in the personal stability in kolektibong struggle, and in pampulitikang struggle himself.
So you will be brought to the Dula in earned't of emotion - in a way that there were part and there are parts of activism - to be returned to and revolution.
Here, strict magkaugnay, not magkabangga, the month of the personal life and the gun that the political struggle.

Pinakamatining the ability to this in the story about the woman who took the remains of his wife NPA.
He passed by the severe pagkwestyon in principle and struggle, but ended up in a strong pagtangan here; the feeling of being alone but went to the feeling of being together with many; in the assumption the lack of meaning of his life and death but dumulo in understanding in the double meaning.
Many of those who are at the audience that I have the awareness pampulitikang marahang nagpunas of tears and heard what control that singhot.
Here is the pinakamasakit but pinakamatamis that Flying kiss that I saw in my whole life.
The good script, she was able to bring to life the great performance of the actor in ekspertong direction of Andoy Ranay.
Napakagaling of Angeli Cemetery who starred who Itawis.
The words he, as Ilocano, but it is a different language.
He did not naisalin of tagapagsalin priest, JC Santos what he is saying, but you will understand clearly, with the help of some susing words and marubdob that emotion.
Many are asking after: Really like said he uttered Bayani?
Because from the heart, and tagos from the heart.
Napakahusay of Mayen Estañero who starred who is the wife of the dead NPA.
He is shown the love, sadness, anger, happiness, loneliness, the grief and earned't iyun of emotion in the scene of life.
His wife, mother that her mother, aktibistang activists.
Should also papurihan, Jackie Lou Blanco, who play socialite - kalakhan on the bathrobe.
He stressed the long monologo and stressed the audience when he joy attitude that his character, maybe even'y!! Or a one of "Titas of Manila" now: His tunggaliang entered, happiness and sadness, pagdadalawang think of the struggle, and others.
Someone said the model in his performance is Maita Gomez, activists and former NPA, that the picture before the story.
Maita became aware last First period Storm of the 1970 while the character of Blanco is in the '80s, but any were amazed to Maita, makakaalala to him in the performance of Blanco.
Many interesante and nakakapagpaisip in Dula.
This is brave to show the danger and sacrifice the future of the activists and rebolusyunaryo, but it is clear in the proof of the commitment, stories, memories, being cunning from the enemy, and other rekurso in facing and alpas.
Brave though careful also in bringing the information, especially in relation to the movement secret: From the counting of the woman Itawis in 21 soldiers who kidnapped in his father until pagpapanggap by her husband that his cousin were dead, until the discovery of the written talambuhay student activists.
An is said to be the reason why the Dula, being again to counter the rebisyunismo in history about the diktadurang US-Marcos who are preparing the path for pagpapanumbalik of the Marcos in Malacanang.
Add also probably the wake up the memory to strengthen the fight against malaganap that ekstrahudisyal that killing and violation of human rights under the leadership of Rodrigo Duterte.
But more than-even more than that the cost and the strength of the "" teacher and gun.
Like'y kinuhanan of Millado of the picture a time strong and firm the struggle - not just against the dictatorship but also in the whole rotten system naghaharing - and the attitude that the said photo now.
Like is probably the commemoration of the first generation of the activists't rebolusyunaryo in FQS.
Pinapalawak our knowledge and understanding, we will give inspiration and ahitasyon about what he has done and it is possible that it is possible to achieve more tanganan now and Lam!! Bear in the future.
Who really the makatang said that you can solve the buod a poem?
That is beautiful and napakahusay iyun: When a likhang-art, without any explanation or rebyu ipagagap is enough for this.
To experience it to the people.
So I say to all: Watch "teacher and gun"!
And told the people behind the Dula: Padayon, the screening of the entire country!



