Be happy even if there is a problem

DOC WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Pilipino Star Ngayon) | Updated July 30, 2015 - 12: 00am

Doctor Willie, I asked just what you mapapayo in a depressed people.
I am too much thinking and sometimes, I can't sleep at night.
I feel that you are tired in the heart and mind.
I hope you can help me.
God bless. - Linda Hi Linda, many people are sad.
In fact, the 10 percent of Filipinos have a depression.
I know that it is hard to fight the sadness, but there is a need to malam!! In you.
As long as you so that you truly persevere.
Here are the what you should do: 1\.
Have the support of the family and friends.
Mara excessive depressed people that the one fight in their relatives.
It seems like they have no friends.
You need to return this somehow.
Be humble.
Ask for forgiveness.
Talk to the friends and if possible, live-in a close relative.
2\.
Read, watch and listening to go to waste out.
Do not watch the drama, iyakan and horror in TV and film.
Maybe especially.
Also avoid panood of the news at night, because it is full of blood and killings that is just.
It is that, in the mind.
Watch the comedy, cartoon and entertainment.
There is a help in depression.
3\.
Be busy in the task.
Work and punuin the time for the whole day.
Do not magtambay in the house because she is the only way the mind.
Do not shown pity himself.
Tell yourself, "that I can.
I am Magsasaya! "4\.
To exercise and eat right.
Was feeling lazy, even if you try to move was moving.
Biking and jogging, or walk at the mall.
Eat a nutritious fruits and vegetables.
You can drink Vitamin B Complex to eat and pampagana pampasarap of sleep.

5\.
Avoid smoking, alcohol and other vices.
There is no good cause.
Just to get your depression.
6\.
Help to others.
Visited the sick.
Nakasasaya of our feelings are helping to other people.
Help the poor, sick, imprisoned and old.
This is the secret of the party.
Try to help others, and slowly be eliminated the depression.
7\.
Pray to God.
What is the problem?
What you need to fix in your character?
Often, we also need to change.
Let us admit it and ask for help to God.
Pass our problem and resentment towards him.
That's why he will fix our life and remove the sadness.
8\.
I did not immediately pinapayo the drinking of the anti-depressant because there is a side effect.
If it is really severe depression, you can consult a psychologist or psychiatrist.
But I believe that you can fight that, friends.
Good luck!



