Help in the fight against child labor- DOLE

April 15, 2016 Lucia F. Brono

The city QUEZON, April 15 (Pia) -- are calling for the Department of Labor the Employment (DOLE) to the public to help in the fight against child Labor through pagreport of incidents related to this.
Hinimok of DOLE Secretary Rosalinda Dimapilis-Baldoz last Tuesday, April 12, the public who called the DOLE call center S.M.I.L.E. with Hotline number 527-8000 for the "child Labor concerns" or to help in the case of the child Labor in the barangay to help in the fight against it.
"Should be united and take part in the campaign against child Labor to masegurong is not going to the children of the abuse, neglect, eksploytasyon, discrimination or other the condition that makasasagabal in their growth," Baldoz explained.
He also said, in the report of OIC Director Gerry S. Rubio reminded the Labor Communications Office that managers in the DOLE call center since February received their office of 13 call.
These are focused on the children in the mines, the activities that maituturiing "child Labor," process of the child Labor rescue or Sagip Batang worker; difference of the child Work in the child Labor; and the process of buying a "child Labor-free establishment" certificates.
Most of the call is from the National Capital Region (NCR).
DOLE made the campaign against child Labor through their program "child Labor-free barangays" that launched in 2012.

It is the purpose of the campaign to have a change and get the support and promises of cooperation from others't other "stakeholders" to totally remove the child Labor in all of the barangay, which will be the first political unit of our country.
In the data of DOLE, to 163 the business the establishment of the child-free Certificates nagawaran Labor since 2013 when the program launched.
Secretary Baldoz also said that in 2015, DOLE Regional offices have awarded child Labor-free Certificates to 58 establishments, bringing the number of establishments to 163's certified child is going to be Labor-free since 2013.
The child Labor-free Establishment is iginagawad in a company or establishments that there is no nagtatrabahong child or not using the products made through the use of the child Labor.
Meanwhile, the Sagip Batang Manggagawa, is an advocacy program of DOLE that launched last year 1993.
This is part of the strategy of the government national to lessen the young workers.
A Inter-made the agency called Quick Action Team to responded to the case against the young workers who are working in intense environment or condition.
Along with the work of the group will discover, follow and make appropriate action against the incident of the young workers who are sukdulang kaabaabang condition.
In the National Capital Region, three barangays were identified that there is a high number of young workers.
The three towns were in the city of Quezon and together with the barangay of mud pot, Commonwealth and Holy Spirit.
It is done by the way the officials of the barangay household help the DOLE-NCR to give appropriate interbensiyon the family of the child like the training or livelihood training, loans for investment in selling or any business and others.
In the additional information, just call or go to the DOLE call center, or SMILE (service Magalang, Mahusay information) deposited in the Employment Labor DOLE in all the region.
This is open from Monday to Sabao from one six in the morning until 6: 30 in the evening.
(DOLE / RJB / LFB / Pia-NCR)



