
Parangalan our martyr!
Pamarisan their traversing the path of pagrerebolusyon!

NDFP Bicol Chapter July 07, 2013

The highest honor the iniaalay of communist Party of the Philippines-New People's Army-National Democratic Front in rehiyong Bikol in eight who risked their lives in a depensibang fight against the 31st Infantry Battalion last July 4, 2013 in Brgy.
Calomayon, Juban, Sorsogon.

Too much ipinagdadalamhati pagkakamartir of the people of Ka Greg Bañares (Frankie Joe Soriano), Ka Miloy (Pehing Hipa), Ka Nel (Christine Puche), Ka Gary (Ted Palacio), Ka Rey (David Llunar), Ka Nene (Romero Añonuevo), Ka Jay (William Villanueva, Jr.), and Ka Kevin (Ailyn Calma).
Inialay of the companion namartir their skill and intellect to makipagkaisa in rebolusyonaryong goals of the citizens to achieve a society is real free, fair, and progressive.

Frankie Joe Soriano, who is known by the masses and his companions as Ka Ems, and Ka Greg Bañares to friends in the media, is the eldest child of the teacher in a public elementary school in Libmanan, Camarines Sur.

An from his father, Ka Greg, that's why't became hard for an ordinary teacher magpaaral in the three children.
So, from the study of highschool in Colegio de Santissimo Rosario in Libmanan, study, Ka Greg's aunt in La Consolacion College of Iriga City.
There, he still continued to being an active sacristan in the church.

He studied up AB Philosophy at Ateneo de Naga University, and used this knowledge to more mapalalim the understanding in the principle gumagabay in pagrerebolusyon of the people.
Since he became a member of the Kapatirang Plebeians and paglao'y of League of Filipino Students at Ateneo in 1989, he became active in pagtataguyod for the welfare of the youth and students, and continued his hinubog himself as tagapaglingkod of the people.
He became organisador of the farmers in 1992, nagsulong of rebolusyonaryong sentrong activities in the town of Camarines Norte last 1995, and as well as the dialect in Manila last second share of the year that.

He appointed to the sonang gerilya as members of the Panrehiyong departments for the instruction in 1998, and starting in 2003, he served as the voice of the people being oppressed and poor citizens dialect as Ka Greg Bañares.
Members of Panrehiyong Committee of the Partido in Bikol.

Wherever you go, in all the feelings and actions of Ka Ems the pagpapataas of diwang rebolusyonaryo of the masses and his companions so that they maarmasan the right perspective, stand, and ways to push for their demokratikong right and desires.
In the strict carrying and promoting of Ka Ems of rebolusyonaryong view and defense, the trust of the people and the people who will succeed with the revolution.

Ka Miloy (Pehing Hipa), from Barangay Butag, Bulan.
Some time only after members of the organization of the youth in their flock, he decided to join the New People's Army because he knows that the hukbong town the weapon of poor people like her fight on the state of the oppressed and a big haciendero kumprador.

In more than fifteen years of service to the people of Ka miloy napahigpit, he is the cooperation of the masses and the warriors hukbong town.
It is important to him he became Salik'y progress as one of the best red Commander of Celso Minguez Command and even members of the Pamprubinsyang Committee of the Partido in Sorsogon.

Speaks of the red warriors are being a good Commander of Ka Miloy.
The trust in his leadership because he is not nagigitla of the sudden news of the operation of the enemy.
The situation he sharp nasusuri military in prubinsya which caused the best facing the enemy.

The light inside the companion of Ka Miloy because he sapol the sentiments of the mandirigmang his fellow farmers.
That is the right way he naipapaabot the comment.
Good in dealing with people deliver, calm in the story, this is the memory of Ka Miloy.
She choosing that was pakikitunguhan.
There was a time when he always-sayahan to peers, but when it comes to the military, he pinanghahawakan are aware that the strict discipline.

Once arrested when the enemy, Ka Miloy, but because he knows that the rightfulness of pagrerebolusyon, he continued to move after be free.

As part of his role as the members of the komiteng prubinsya, Ka Miloy served as well as the second secretary of the committee of a ground gerilya in Sorsogon.
He's also as the Commander of the units gerilya of said the field until his pagkamartir.
Died, Ka Miloy that is strictly the handling of his gun, a proof of pagkapit her in the armed struggle.

The picture of a true communists, Christine "Ka Nel" Puche.
In spite of the big poverty in pagrerebolusyon, he was not seen by one of the hesitant.
It is not a hindrance in his eyes is unlikely to face the mountains of the countryside.
Although just came from a mayor operations medical and pinayuhang rest his wounds, he chose to continue the paggampanan on important task in the ranks of the farmers in the countryside.

Since last 1993 maorganisa as a student of Journalism in UP College of the mass Communications, the entire time of Ka Nel is iniukol to pagrerebolusyon.
Does not get tired of Ka Nel paggampan in any task.
It can be recalled him as a companion who is always pinagkakaabalahang tasks.
Even when students on the Bicol University-College of Education Laboratory High School, your of Ka Nel the right aktitud in facing the task.
Napaunlad when he was still the quality of leadership in his they kolektibong to Partido.

Sharp, intelligent, and always prioritizes the welfare of the poor and being oppressed.
Ka Nel for the good of his pagbalanse in the challenge of being rebolusyonaryong mother, a wife, and most of all, as tagapaglingkod of the people.

Ka Nel was appointed in 1998 as a member of the Istap in the instruction in Albay.
He transferred to Panrehiyong Istap in, Propaganda of last 2001 where he led the more pagpapalapit of rebolusyonaryong line of the masses and even in the middle force.
In the year 2006, he was assigned in Sorsogon to continue the work in the ranks of the masses.
Raised in Legazpi City, Ka Nel.

Science professor of finished computer at Ateneo de Naga University in 1995, Ted Palacio, Ka Gary for those with.
He also at Ateneo graduated BS finished computer Science.
In spite of the invitation of the big office will surely give him the maalwang life, pinangibabaw of Ka Gary what is more important to respond imulat the wide citizens to al!! Carrying the extreme poverty and bullying by armed revolution.
He Isinakripisyo the higher salary as professor and began to act as organisador of fellow teachers and students.
Since he became active in 1996 in the fight against others't other issues serves as a burden to the people, from the increase of tuition, until the increase in the price of oil.
Not long after, in 1998, he was appointed as the Partido organisador of the workers.
When the following year, Ka Gary that people decided to his service in the participation in the armed revolution in the countryside.

Meaningful as his contribution of Ka Gary fellow companion was just starting magkabisa of kompyuter.
It is a huge benefit to the rebolusyonaryong shared the movement of Ka Gary that he kahusayan in computer programming.
As well as, simple but he sharp inilalahad in the with the masses and rebolusyonaryong line of the Partido in his giving of education.
Loyal to his sworn duty to Partido insist to serve the kind of was and being oppressed, and he will stay in rebolusyonaryong action immediately after be free from the captivity of an enemy.

The silent, Ka Gary, henyo if they will be treated by his companions, is also another makata.
He is proud of his companions as one of the best players of chess in the whole region.

, Ka Rey (David Llunar), Ka Nene (Romero Añonuevo), and Ka Jay (William Villanueva Jr.) are all good red Commander of Celso Minguez Command from the ranks of the kind of farmers.
They are unique kakanyahan being humble and malumanay but brave in front of the fight.
Not a few times when a good napamunuan of Ka Rey and Ka Nene the their respective iskwad in launched taktikal offensive of the CMC, as well as the depensibang fight.
Ka Jay is known by his companions in Camarines Sur as Commander who is always at the top of the operation and haras isnayp against the forces of the enemy of Rinconada.
Some operations isparo also his successful accomplishments.

Ka iniluwal Rey of the organization of the farmers in Gabao, Irosin, up to be members of the branches of the Partido in their flock.
, Ka Nene and Ka Jay is masisigasig that the members of the organization of the youth in their own barrios.
From Gumapia, Irosin, Ka Nene, and a native of Macad, Pasacao, Camarines Sur, Ka Jay.
Like many young farmers who grew up with the poverty, they decided to join the New People's Army to this effective mapakilos are both farmers in resolving the root of poverty.

, Ailyn Calma (Ka Kevin), a native of Padre Diaz, Bulan, Sorsogon, will join the hukbong town in 2009.
That year of directly meddling of the American soldiers in Bikol, particularly in Sorsogon.
In this situation, Ka aware Kevin to violence and fraud that caused by Imperyalismong't US, that's why he became a deeper in the pagsapol rightfulness of fighting against corruption of the foreigners and their local tagapagtaguyod.
When the fulltime hukbo, napaunlad of Ka Kevin himself as organisador of the youth and the group pangkultura, as tagapagbigay of education in the ranks of the poor farmers, and as organized to supply officer of hukbong town.

, Ka Kevin and Ka Jay, the members of Iglesia ni Cristo.
But their belief, it was not a hindrance to participating in the armed struggle.
Instead, they nilubos being a good child of the country to teach the true public service to the people.

A meaningful role the film of Ka Kevin this last year in more pagpapatatag of organisadong strength of the farmers in the countryside.
Continuous iniambag of Ka Kevin all of his skill in consecutive pagbubuo of the actual Samahang Masa of farmers, women, and youth in the baryong his kinilusan.
Would not of the taumbaryo was the companion convened in them to organisahin the self, it is the rebolusyonaryong studies, and fix their own strength to aabante of the interest of their kind.

Pinararangalan again of rebolusyonaryong movement and the people the eight martyr of the revolution.
Nilubos their time to magpaunlad of the ability of the masses and his companions.
In their own particular tasks as the communists, they led the rebolusyonaryong force to step-steps that the ranks of the ikonsolida mistreated and was, and the weapon of principle and gun, and slowly to weaken the rotten system that serves as a burden to the people.
So, naipundar of our martyr, in every communication with the people and his companions, the seeds that magtitiyak of the continuation and strengthening of pagrerebolusyon.

The being paghihimagsik of the people he tinatangkang solve the AFP through direct pasismo.
For the armed forces of the state, there is no space for the right criticism and fighting, why not also't different of attackers who 31st IB the armed men to be armed with.
There is no recognition of the law of digma shot the 31st IB when they have no ability to resist, Ka Greg, Ka Nel, and Ka Gary.
Every collapse, as well as with, was shot in the head by the pasista.

Our great martyr of the revolution is pamamarisan of laksang farmers, professionals, youth, and women to pagsilbihing inspiration the skill and talinong inialay they, as well as their courage and strength in front of the ferocity of the enemy, so the digmang iabante town to achieve the success of the citizens.



