
Alarm in Syria, fear in migranteng workers

By Darius Galang February 9, 2012

Map of the country of Syria in the Middle East.
Overcome the fear of air-strikes any day last week in Syria, where there is a rumbles in the removal of the president of the country, Bashar al-Assad.
Currently in the alert level 4 the country because of the conflict.
In the middle of the chaos in an uncertain situation, many Filipinos who until now is having a hard time to go home because of the failure of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the embassy of the Philippines in Syria to take care of their welfare.
The situation of Syria first of all, was criticized by the Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs), with the leadership of Migrante International, the role of the government of the United States to quickly worsening of the situation in Syria towards a war-civilians.
Directly when the US 'marriages and the alyado this government in Internal topic of the country.
"Like what happened in Libya, a coalition nagbuo recently the United States to oust (Syrian President Bashar al-Assad).
The thing that the forces US-NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) under the allegedly'y humanitarian mission.
But binasbasan of the United Nations and the Arab League the pagsagawa of the military and air-strikes in the said country, "explained that Garry Martinez, chairman of Migrante International.
Migrante fear that it is possible to happen in Syria the bloody interbensiyon of the US in Libya.
"Legitimacy the call of the people of Syria for change, who they think are useful in their country.
But you should not interfere any force, and should let the people of Syria to resolve their issue, "Martinez added.
In the government Nanganalampag Migrante International for help the OFW stranded in the war in Syria.
(Contribution) anguish of the OFW in a press conference yesterday, he presented a few kababaihang OFW home to the country their fate in the middle of the chaos in Syria.
The content of their stories it is difficult to escape from the boss, the lack of food, and the lack of communication with the loved ones in life even inside the embassy of the Philippines.
According to OFWs from Syria, not allow the boss they went out of the house to the Filipino people works.
The statement of Shelly Mae Cruz, from January yet last year the suffering of the OFW forcefully asked for help from the embassy.
But when it arrived in the embassy, doo'y, it seems that they are still in jail.
"Like we just let that almost no" have nothing to eat.
Others almost a year and there is still not "home, he said.
The story of the OFW, there is only a few rasyon in the food of the embassy, paminsa'y naghahati divided in a small piece of chicken.
At a time, that they are still eaten by panis luncheon meat.
"Really difficult.
You can eat that is really the you do not really eating, "story of Elizabeth Golong.
In the intensifying war in Syria, the more they are in danger of the Filipinos working there, according to the Migrante.
It is difficult to also confiscated in communication because the cellphone of the owner of the OFW.
Duenas Arnulfa said that he did not almost talked to his son Analyn, that until now'y in Syria.
The question of Martinez, how "not lent in our embassy their equipment to be used in the communication of our countrymen"?
The most unfortunate story of Jocelyn Orpiada, of deportation center a citizens who are victims of gahasa.
"When he was able to go to the embassy, and take a taxi, he even raped the driver and thrown in a crowded place in Damascus.
It's a good thing there is concerned to help him and he was brought to the hospital, ", he said.
'y allegedly no investigation that happened and not caught the raped in the said Filipina.
Reason of the DFA criticized by Martinez the DFA to be good treatment of the OFW in Syria, aside from the lack of fixing the papers and quickly repatriation in the Philippines.
There is a deployment ban in Syria since 2009.
But in the estimation of Migrante, there are more than 18,000 that Filipinos when it was still illegal.
In the conversation of the representatives of Migrante and some relatives of OFWs to Ricardo Endaya, Executive Director of the Office of the Undersecretary on Migrant Workers Affairs-DFA, it appears that the department has a fund for the remaining contract are of the OFW who was deployment ban.
But it appears that continued their work in the country.
It also appears that given "working permits" of the embassy the Filipino illegals.
Also stated by Endaya the meeting with 1096 OFW pinoproseso is able to go home.
Endaya made sure that there is a corresponding budget for airfare of pauuwiing workers.
Up to $2,000 to $4,000 in every OFW the total deployment cost.
But is of Migrante panaka-nakang repatriation of the OFW who allegedly'y because of the slow process has been delayed and lack of budget.
Two batch only, with a total 798, the nakakauwi in the country.
Emphatically denying'y also said that the spread of Endaya giyerang civilians in Syria and there is a need for a thorough repatriation of the Filipinos.
For now, there are only repatriation efforts for the Filipinos in the city of Homs, Hama, Idlib and Daraa.
Welcomed by Martinez.
They are saying that "" peaceful "and" is not a mess "in other places, even if we have fellow countrymen register to go home.
We still going to wait for the violence spread in a different place?
What will be the basis of the alert level 4 in the entire country of Syria "?
The call of help challenged Martinez, Pres.
Benigno Aquino III an to release a position about the situation in Syria, also for the sake of the thousands of Filipinos who have left there.
"Should support in President Aquino to the steps of the United States, and he did not release the position that against here, it seems that he is also the naggawad of the death of our fellow countrymen who can matamaan of bombs from the foreign forces,", he said.
Simple the call of the coming from Syria and is still fresh in the memory the pinagmulang conflict.
Elizabeth "pagmamakaawa, we are calling for the government to help those left behind in Syria, especially those who are still not get out of the house and it is not yet their proper minds of the way to go to the embassy".
Comment of Migrante, he did not even given the DFA to financial Assistance for OFWs no naiuwi but themselves.
Aside from this, the lack of real reintegration program to give them a job.
We will not "calling the government of Aquino has no support of Filipinos stranded in the turmoil in other countries, and do not care about the lack of livelihood in their own country," Martinez said.



