Loyalty in PAGKASALAWAHAN: Reflection for mass Gabi Day 2 - December 17, 2014 - OF THE POOR year

Nasusukat the loyalty of a person?
There is a story of a paring prices fond of his ikinakasal.
Once he interview, for the wedding, he first talked to the man: "If the amount of money will be the integrity of your wife, how much is the equivalent" this?
"Father, the amount of loyalty he is php" 20,000.
Again asked the priest, ", those being understanding, how much he is worth" this?
"Father, he is the broad-mindedness" Php 10,000!
"Here, the last question," "said the priest, the beauty of the will be your wife" how much?
"Father, five pesos!" The man answered.
Why is it only five peso ""?
I want you to know ", then look at your'yo outside the will of my wife!" Answer of the young man.
Out the priest and peeked anfg appearance of the future.
The priest when he returned to the room, he handed the two peso is the man said "Ito together, the two pesos, you still have a sukli, three peso was the amount of beauty" he!
The sibling, those married prices do'yo the beauty of your partner, how much?
If only the amount he limangpiso, the call there is FIDELITY or loyalty... hehehe!
The fidelity comes from the word Latin that FIDES, which means that faith.
It means, it is possible that the honesty is only if a person has a strong faith.
Our heard on the second day of the mass Gabi the record-angkanan or Genealogy of our Lord Jesus.
Pagkahaba-length of the name of our heard.
Maybe even inantok ata the many of us while reading it; but only one wants to bring the message: That he never became a true God to us!
Because he became He fulfill his promise that the safety through history.
God is loyal to his promises.
But the katapatang this is in need of answers to us.
Our response our paghihntay in him a deep faith, masidhing hope, and maalab love.
It is true that we, the people, there is a weakness in our own.
We have a heart of salawahan and students, we nagtataksil in our loving God.
The goodnews... the Lord is remains to be honest in spite of our continued infidelity and ever since, we are not pagtataksilan.
Hopefully this will cause to us by an inspiration to the alabin is our love for him!
Live with loyalty and don't take the heart of a salawahan!



