The election is ready to LAHAT, they said

Ready [] said everything that needs to be done by our government for the return of the students in the school.
Ready to the room, ready to the books, table and chairs of the students.
The police said, they are also ready to distribute that is why they are wearing civilian police.
This is the one of their the readiness to give protection to the students against the ogag of society like the muggers so magkukunwaring passengers were the police.
In Metro Manila, of course, it is not the least the Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA) is ready to also their staff to ensure the light flow of traffic.
MMDA added, it is also the so-called Pumping Station in the entire Manila is used to avoid the flood our countrymen at the onset of the rainy season.
In other words, if the base it on all of the statement of others't other agencies of the government will surely would be the opening of the school in the upcoming June.
All of them is ready.
They all have their own gimmick to the public as a sign of their preparedness.
Magpapauto so if we are sure that we will get hurt in this statements.
I went to the house of the neighbor Ipupusta I ogag!
In the reopening of the schools in the whole country, there is lacking in the room, the chair, table and book.
In the return of the students in the school, especially there in public schools, for sure there are missing the name list or from the list because nasingitan.
The entry of the month of June... surely sisikip the flow of traffic, and when the strong rain will surely lalakad in flood our students, especially in Metro Manila.
Some of the students is the makatitikim of the ferocity of the ogag of society like the robbers, isnatser and other modus?
We will say again that... where is the police?!
Under the bridge, nanunuklay?!
I really Karkula is more than punuan road was a lack of classrooms.
It is a big funds were used in the breakfast the offices of the government instead of funds for the book, table and chairs.
You think, people?



