According to J, a new acquaintance

Of Marjohara Tucay shallow is really just me.
I do not want to received the expensive gifts, flowers or any kaartehan.
As I have said, there are only two things the real magpapangiti to me: Any kind of chocolate and puto "calasiao - the small putong white can be on the sidewalks.
And oh yes, rice.
Nagpustahan because of my friends that we don't eat rice the entire week.
So that the yearning that I have been after a week and in the end, eaten that I am again of rice.
A romantic excitement every would.
If you can see that the feeling.
Or talked to.
He is easy, but it is happy.
This is not like the be ablaze feeling when I was in the rally or'y nagtatalumpati about the issue of society.
Or "'y that are teaching the workers, or coordinating with the farmers.
There is also a different kind of feeling that your happiness "- the moral, happiness nakaaantig of feelings.
It is probably tawaging romantic excitement is how I feel when he sees income.
I like the "natitigilan in every magtatama our eyes, or'y I will be received the message from'yo.
I know that it is not only in the'yo "" that, I am also not the type, but it is just happy.
Exhausting you already.
Because it is always thinking.
In the middle of the tasks, floating in the minds, I was smiling you face, and mapapangiti, I also.
The other day, I did not notice that ngiting is smiling while I was riding the MRT.
I will continue to look at the woman in front of me.
Why did I felt in the napakagaan'yo?
The truth is, I still do not really know.
Maybe, because you are happy really was talking to, and napakabukas your things.
If it is not just after we talked about.
But it is also happy that even for a moment, even papano, being with you.
I do not know if there is a destination is all of the romantic excitement that brings you to me.
I was not able to read because what is in your mind.
Or maybe I just really don't want to read.
It is also because it is scary.
As told by my friends with five Phase is what I like me - every time there is a happy discovery, Phase, rejection, acceptance, and moving on.
Over and over again that's happening ", perhaps, fear, I also.
In Phase happy because I am now, and if it's just me, I do not want to leave in Phase.
And because I have no other could do but write, this is just my ipadadaan all of my request to'yo.
I tried to because all the gimmick to expressing their feelings - from being kimi and pakipot until the face-to-face and immediately-efficient.
Now, it's as if I want a gimmick, it seems that the "in anonymous older brother who left roses from the guard of Vinzons for one of the artist of Kule.
Kuyang has a beautiful smile, in case you'll be able to read this and there was even a bit I hope in'yo, a bag is just the puto calasiao in front of me.
Just leave to Kuyang Guard in Vinzons.
I am waiting and wouldn't expect to.
Hopefully, there is a patunguhan all romantic excitement.



