Salo-salo in the table by Christ: Reflection for the Solemnity of Corpus Christi year C - June 1, 2013 - year OF Faith

Do you like to eat in fast foods?
Jolibee, Mcdonalds, Chowking, this, and the common.. was we if we are hungry.
That's why fast Food, because you want to ease the your hunger!
But do you happy eating when you with?
Isn't it't more delicious to eat in the place that if you are with your friends?
Delicious to eat when you are talking to someone.
Enjoy eat when there is a persistence you!
Exciting eat when there is a manlilibre 'to you!
That's why we were also called't dining is "salo "-salo.
It means that you have a companion... someone with you... someone kasalo you!
This is perhaps the changes to us in the animals in every time we are eating.
We are not the only lumalamon alone or kaumakain of no pansinan pagbabahaginang, we have done... we have sharing!
The holy Eukaristiya is not just accepting the body of Jesus.
This is also pagbabahaginan because this is a living.
The holy Eukaristiya, the Lord is nakikisalo to us!
That is why it is hard to think that while we are receiving communion rules in our heart, the anger of our fellow!
In the second reading, pinaaalalahanan of San Pablo, the people in Corinto in the sharing of Jesus in the last dinner.
He saw a pagkakanya-his rules in the first Christians every time they'y celebrate the last dinner.
The mass they then, they are doing in a house of done in the sly and they learned of their own money to share after their celebration.
Perhaps there are some who did not nagbabahagi of his money.
This Sinararili or given only those close to him!
Got angry, San Pablo of see it so he minarapat't paalalahanan them in the true spirit of Euckarisitya.
The miracle in Ebanghelyo happened because there is a nagbahagi of five bread and two fish!
Perhaps, a small thing but in the hands of Jesus is very... that the size of the heart of the person he presented!
That is why he was able to maibahagi pinarami in every person.
We to accept the communion, we always to remember that we are also nagbabahagi to others!
We should not think that we are only poor or we have no ability to help.
It is the statement of the church about this: "No person is too rich to not mangailangan of the help of others... and there is also no person is too hard to not magkaloob" help from others!
When the paring "body of Christ" the answer is Amen!
Amen, which means that I believe.
I believe that it is in front of me is not just a bread.
I believe that my accepted it is not just a symbol.
I believe that this is the real body of Kristong my Lord have his full pagkaDiyos and he is mananahan in my heart.
But, most of all, I am also believes that the body of Christ, not only the "holy Ostia" that I accepted it but it is also the are both in my side... the fellow that I love, the fellow that I enemy!
Should make sure we learn to get to know, Jesus in every year of our people nakakatagpo and accept they on how we are accepting him in the holy Eukaristiya!
In this year of the faith we teach the meaning of Eukaristiya as salo-salo in the table by Christ.
One our pinagsasaluhan.
One of the blessings that we have been accepted.
One pagpapalang our shared.
Be life we Eukaristiya to others!



