CAFGU overturned, Oplan Unity failed!

You Dencio Madrigal April 20, 2012 an additional proof that the failure of Oplan Unity of regime US-Aquino in the province of Sarangani the pagbaliktad of a membro of CAFGU, pending Nonggod the NPA, Guerilla Front 71 last March 16, 2012.
Nonggod was assigned to the detachment of Sitio Salimama, Brgy.
Datal Anggas, Alabel, Saranggani Province before it overturned.
It is a big slap to 73rd IB and 1002nd Bde, PA the pagbaliktad of Nonggod because this is their ipinangangalandakan opposite to the NPA in Saranggani Province.
The pagbaliktad of Nonggod is proof that increasing the influence of rebolusyunaryong movement and this'y tumatagos until inside the ranks of CAFGU and enlisted personnel are of the AFP in the province.

, Nonggod, who became assistant team leader and four years of CAFGU under the 72nd Cadre Batallon of the 10th ID, PA, is reversed in the NPA brought his issue garand rifles and bullets in the reason that he was not able to resist the corruption, corruption, harassment and of domination that exists in the span of their detachment.
Kinukurakot of their official the P700 / Month / people that they budget for food, which is why they no longer have anything to eat almost't inside their detachment.
They will not be expressing their complaints because they are being threatened to remove the 'service' and sometimes they ipinapailalim 'Contact' body.
In addition to this, their monthly salary is P2,790 kinakaltasan of monthly medical fee, 20, Cooperative fee of 1002nd Bde to 50 pesos, budget for food that P700 and other ibinabawas, which is why the neto't P1,700 that they receive every month.
Also happening inside their camp the kahayukan the woman of their detachment Commander.
Several times diuamanong his wife took advantage of one of their fellow CAFGUs.

The kind of, not only in the detachment of CAFGU that former include of Nonggod but in the entire organizations and institutions of the AFP because he is naturally rotten, corrupt, mapanupil and violent as he pinakagulugod of reaksyunaryong state of the naghaharing kind of big a bourgeoisie and Lord maylupa.

Also stated by Nonggod felt that she did not see't is said to be the peace, prosperity and respect for human rights of Oplan Unity inside their ranks and as well as in the community in the jurisdiction of the peace talks the development outreach program that he is implementing the 73rd IB and 1002nd Bde in the province of Sarangani.
It's not true that peace will be implemented by the troops of the AFP but violence, threats, fraud and of domination of the farmers and lumad.

Chose of Nonggod that overturned the NPA and not only a simple humimto or to leave his' service 'because up to his knowledge the call and programs of rebolusyunaryong movement for their membro of CAFGU and military.
He believed his hoping from democracy, real prosperity, respect and recognition in his human rights, he will be experienced if he joined in rebolusyunaryong movement.

But ganunpaman, he did not accept to be a regular membro of the NPA because of the murder of a former member of Brgy.
Datal Anggas, Alabel last March 15, 2012.
This case for now are continuously iniimbistigahan of the NPA, Guerilla Front 71.

, pending Nonggod now, humane takes care of the NPA based on the principle and the law of digma in protocol 1 of the Geneva Convention, CARHIHL and in the three signature and eight important point of disiplinang steel of the NPA, particularly in humane treatment of the enemy that nabihag, and overturned the NPA.
Also, in the process of organizing the giving him in the livelihood and with support't subsidyo -- free land masasaka rebolusyonaryong based on the programs of the government about the real reform in the land.



