
6 Philippine military-inspired menu that you do not know

How many namamangha pinagkakasya of the soldiers were their subsistence was commonly known as S. A.
(Subsistence Allowance).

Because if we, any Genius in math and kwenta fit if this will not be compared to the current prices are the goods.

Just imagine, the daily meal was our soldiers are only costs P90.00 or P30.00 every meal.

If you are going even in cheap restaurant, alaws atang food that he saw that the amount is P30.00.
This might you oorderin:

"A Cup rice, the head of the thin galunggong, free soup and two tablespoons of ketchup" please!

Anyway, for the soldiers, we have a strategy to make ends meet about our small piece of mess.
So we can't complain as long as't is really.
Don't say "" huh???.
Yes, we make ends meet.
This is because of the so-called consolidated messing where is Mess Sergeant how the dumidiskarte makamura in the buying of the food in the shop and how he is this paghati-divide in the entire '' people.

Because of our katitipid in our mess, there is a unique menu that we know what is almost just now.
Read MORE.

1\.
Onse (11).
What now?
When it is said to be the number Onse or Eleven the dish, it is a piece of hot dog with kapares that a piece of dried fish.
Kitams?

2\.
Diyes (10).
Ah, that before.
Yes, that is similar to a dry and a piece of it-cooked egg.
Ipagtabi.
Kitams?
Dies!

3\.
Or-tin.
"Hey, don't green-minded!
On this Odong as soup and partner is a thin smoked fish.
You Ipagsama the First syllables of two dish, that!
The students more breakfast or-tin.

4\.
Pantakbo.
The Labo?
This is to call the dish chicken even whatever he cooked.
If the paulam chicken is because of his, the liliparin!
If in the training, they reach the 20 kilometers from jogging.
Meanwhile, if in the field on duty is there is a 2-week President patrol.
If the chicken dish, immediately doubting the troops in the plan of C.O.

5.
Bicol Express.
Generic in the term of his ginataan like jackfruit and kalabasa.
This is his Binubudburan of siling labuyo to molten lava of Mt.
Mayon will feel the heat.
Masiram?
No, maharang!

6.
Still-tsam.
On this all sorts of hitsurang leaves that picked the Ilokanong soldiers in the forest and nilalagyan sardines and sinasabawan.
Sometimes nail, night, alukbati and many other food, it seems that the pet animals.
Also delicious and napakagaan in the pocket!
Also savings in Mess on President tsam menu, isn't it?



