Thursday, April 2, 2015

No priest...
There is no mass: (Reposted & Revised) reflection for Holy Thursday - year B - April 2, 2015 - YER OF THE POOR

There is a mother who forcibly that his son am waking up our: "Posts" hey, you!
You and you will catch up to the mass "!
Pamaktol answering the child, "mother, give me a two good reason for" I got up.
Replied that the mother, "son, the first-year-old kuwarenta you and you need more told that up.
Second, you are the paring magmimisa!
Posts you!
We are going to "!!!
Meanwhile, mother is right because there is no mass KUNG no priest and no RING priest KUNG no mass!
This Thursday Santo, there are two celebration: The Pagtatatag priesthood and the Pagkakatatag of Sakramento of the holy Eukaristiya.
Two sakramentong was never mapaghihiwalay.
"The Lord Jesus, last night, he'y ipagkanulo dumampot of bread,, and pinaghati divided it, and said," Ito my body that inihahandog for you.
You can do this in remembering "to me.
The holy paghahaing headed by our Lord Jesus, she gave in our two big as a sign of the love of God to the people.
The priesthood is a symbol of trust to us that although't we are not deserving to be chosen to us and he chose to be his mission of pagliingkod.
The Eukaristiya is the symbol of loyalty and love can lead to aalay of his life for our safety.
On this day, let us show our love for our priests.
We Ipgadasal them to remain honest and diligent in pagsasabuhay of their vocation.
Stay they may be furniture to the love of god is to deliver it to the people.
On this day, we may also feel that love to us by God in every time we ipinagdiriwnag Santa mass.
His body and blood, his inialay so we magkamit a new life.
That is why't every approaching communion should give us in the hope that we can tumulad of Christ.
'no love if he still loved.
Forgive how Him nagpatawad.
To serve as to how he served.
We are called to be like him.
We may be Christ for others!
And this year of the Dukha or year of the Poor, we should make sure to be Christ in our siblings who are poor.
Like Jesus that there is a unique view of the dukha, we may also be "Eukaristiya" or thanks to our siblings who are unfortunate.
The help to them, especially in their respond material, even if it is a big or small, are blessings that their thank while they are still alive.
We continued to help them, we are not noticing, becomes "Eukaristiya" (gratitude) we for others.



