She wants to get pregnant By George Nava-TRUE II November 30, 2016 he is lonely me and I do not know what to do.
Almost a month that delayed the mens.

Irregular.
Nagpacheck up and I said I have polycystic ovary.

I still mabubuntis? - name withheld.
The polycystic ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is a common problem of the endocrine system that can be seen in the woman who can give birth.
The obaryo and cysts or follicles which caused the infrequent or a long mens or the increase of androgen or male hormones in the body of the woman.
Aside from irregular mens (to show after 35 days or without mens within four months or more), it's still far mangalbo or kumapal the hair (hirsutism), have a taghiyawat manaba, and the woman.
If the mens, it can be less or whatever it is.
Don't know the reason why the doctor hunch, but it has something to do with the increase of insulin, the hormone that they are doing in the pancreas helping the proper use of sugar or glucose that give the energy in the body.
If there is insulin resistance, it is not used properly, which is why the insulin whatever are being brought out of the pancreas.
Can also come from the swelling of the body and PCOS inherit it.
If detect immediately and magpapayat, avoid complications like diabetes and heart disease.
Can also cause high cholesterol, swelling of the liver, infertility, depression, cancer, and the PCOS abnormally uterine bleeding.
In the beginning, the doctor if you look at the diet and exercise against PCOS.
The combination you might give birth control pills that there is a hormone and progestin to be normal the mens.

If you were not here, maybe you can that the progesterone iinumin inside the 10 to 14 days each one or two months.
You also have protection against endometrial cancer.
Another choice is Metformin insulin to the level of the body.
To ovulate and get pregnant, you need to drink clomiphene or come with her during her of Metformin.
If it is difficult, there are still pagbuntis gonadotropins that can be inject in the body.
Last but not the least letrozole is to help in the pregnancy.



