
Digmang town in ST, in spite of the extreme militarisasyon being

The town 7 April 2012

Download PDF fierce the military operations of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in the region of Southern Tagalog (ST).
This are the ones being targeted prubinsya of Quezon, Rizal, Laguna, Batangas and, as well as the island province of Mindoro and Palawan.

Not considering the killings like a massacre of civilians minor nangangaso last February in Magdalena, Laguna.
The ebakwasyon, and destroying the livelihood of the indigenous people in Mindoro and Palawan as a result of the operation to control the population.
The widespread to make the pinagsususpetsahang are allies of rebolusyonaryong movement in Quezon and Mindoro; ekstrahudisyal kidnapping and murder of the leader of the masses in Batangas, Mindoro and Palawan.
There are many cases of illegal arrest and pagdetine; pagmolestya and disrespect of women.
The pagrekrut forcibly of the minors in CAFGU; and malicious-involve the progresibong leader and organization of the people and the armed rebolusyonaryong movement.
These are just a few examples mababanggit from a long list of the crime of the AFP against the people.

In the region, the militarisado kalunsuran many community of poor cities and the factory.
Became a common scene that the presence of the detatsment of the military in the community of the workers and indigent near the Laguna de Bay under the so-called "peace talks the order" and "" community development.

Nakakonsentra in areas that are gerilya of ST the total 16 battalions of the AFP under the 2nd ID and Western Command.
Not included here are the forces of the Special Action Force and the public safety maneuver Battalion of the PNP and the units of CAFGU that pinamamahalaan of 59th Cadre Battalion of the Philippine Army.

The Quezon the pinakamilitarisadong prubinsya nakadeploy of regions where the four battalions of the Philippine Army under the 201st and 202nd Brigade: The 74th IB in the 4th District; 85th IB in the 3rd District; 76th IB in 2nd District; and 1st SFB in 1st District.
The latag Pinakamasinsin of an enemy in South Quezon and Bondoc Peninsula (3rd and 4th district) where more or less six battalions of the combined forces of the AFP, PNP and CAFGU the nakadeploy in total 57 camp and detatsment.

Follow the island of Mindoro with three battalions of the Philippine Army under the 203rd Brigade - the 80th IB, 4th IB, strength-batalyong force of the 23rd Division Reconnaissance Coy and a company of Scout Ranger, three panagupang battalions of the PNP and an additional three battalions of CAFGU that there are more than 2,400 staff in total and scattered in the entire 54 camp and detatsment.

The third, the Palawan with two battalions of the Philippine Marines - the 4th and 12th Marine Battalion Landing Team - under the Western Command, a battalion of the Philippine Air Force (740th combat Group), a battalion of the PNP and a battalions of CAFGU scattered in the 20 camp and detatsment.

Meanwhile, the 202nd Brigade that has jurisdiction over the prubinsya of Rizal, Laguna, Batangas and in the 1st and 2nd district of Quezon has six panagupang battalion - the 76th IB in North Quezon, 1st SFB in Central Quezon, 1st IB in Laguna, 730th and 733rd CG of PAF in Batangas and 16th IB in Rizal.
In addition, the 58th IB under the 5th ID is naglulunsad of the military operation at the boundary of Rizal and Bulacan.

In spite of much to lead the AFP to force and kagamitang magiting military, that the future of the New Hukbong Bayan in Southern Tagalog every attack of mersenaryong military and police of papet regime that the US-Aquino.
In the report of the prubinsya not kumpletong and eryang military, nailunsad that the total 89 taktikal offensive the past two years that resulted in the enemy of 63 dead and 39 injured.
Confiscated in this fight the total 85 weapons consisting of 48 strong riple, 37 pistol't weak riple and many kagamitang military like night vision goggles, the radyong pangkomunikasyon, the grenade and bullets.

Continued to all of the gerilya the opensibang military of the AFP that the patlang maiiksi of rest.
In spite of this, and in the middle of the poverty, successful napreserba more than ten areas that are gerilya in seven provinces in the region.
Grabbed by relatibong smaller and more weak units of hukbong town the inisyatiba and pleksibilidad to avoid pakikipagsagupaang does not to prepare and the possibility that maipanalo while looking for a chance to banatan and pinsalain the relatibong more are weak and bulnerableng part of the enemy.

Good took advantage of the town of hukbong a short time of the tone down the military operations to pukawin organisahin pakilusin, and the masses, the launch the pakikibakang antipyudal and rebolusyong agraryo, participating in the production, figure came since the local organs of powers pampulitika and the rebolusyonaryong organization of the citizens, and the pallet double the training in politics't military.
Because of this, continue to anger and napapalawak the baseng support for hukbo and sandatahang struggle from the countryside while nalilinang the strict discipline and readiness in the fighting of hukbo.



