
Conspiring of the military and the bandit group, criticized

The town 21 February 2012 strongly criticized the Herminio Alfonso Command-Guerrilla Front 53 Operations Command (BHB-Southern Mindanao) the blatant violation of the Federation of Manobo-Matigsalog Tribal Council (Femmatric) in human people of the Lumad in the district of Marilog, in Bukidnon and the Arakan Valley.

The Femmatric headed by Lito Gawilan pangangamkam is involved in the soil, robbery, the sale of fake gold bar and pangingilkil in small businessman in haywey of Bukidnon.
Made to come out of Gawilan which is being represented the tribong Matigsalog and Manobo for saying that the land he allegedly dinedepensahan ninuno.
The truth is, he pinapabilis mapandambong that the operation of the plantation of Goma and the konsesyon of mining because he is holding the Certificate of Ancestral Domain that sumasaklaw of the places that are rich in rekurso similar to the town of Kitaotao prubinsya of Bukidnon, in the town of Arakan in North Cotabato and district of Marilog in Davao City.

An accomplice of the group Femmatric-Gawilan the group Bunsuran behind the construction of the armed group Alsa Lumads and bandits.
Also binubuhay again in the statement, the group Blackfighter Marilog and Tambobong, Baguio, Davao City.

Is protected from the 403rd Brigade and 8th IB the group Gawilan and other rebel syndicates.
He used the Special Operations Team for the peace and prosperity to as the setler that Lumads and not Lumads and make the maramihang pagsurender.
That's why allow the military to sow terror in the group Gawilan haywey of Bukidnon.

Due to the widespread violation of the group Gawilan in human people of the Lumad, experienced severe kaswalti the 403rd Brigade of the successive the taktikal offensive of BHB in Bukidnon.
It so he is angry at the Lumad through pagpaparatang on the leaders of the tribe of Bukidnon allegedly giving support to BHB.

Mabubunyag but also to the Lumad are the crime her like pangangamkan of land ninuno, oportunismo and pagkakanulo of the land ninuno in Bukidnon in big multinasyunal that company in mining, komersyal that pagtotroso plantation, and others.



