The troops of the 57th and 8th IB, inambus in Bukidnon and North Cotabato

The town 7 April 2012 inambus of Front 53 under the Herminio Alfonso Command of the New Hukbong Bayan-Southern Mindanao were the forces of the 57th and 8th IB in Sityo Bantaan, Bagumbayan, Magpet on March 29.
A soldier was killed and another one wounded in the ambush.
The units-military that this is the responsible for the execution of the fierce Special operation, harassment of the citizens and indiscriminate bombing in Magpet, North Cotabato and Kibawe, Bukidnon.
As a result of this, the widespread dislokasyon of civilians and samutsaring violation of human people in the area.
Ka Namartir Nonoy, a Pulang warriors, in the fight.

As revenge, the AFP of the two airplane war equipment and a OV-10 and rudely nambomba civilians in the community of Bagumbayan, Magpet within two days.
Here, ipinusisyon also added that the AFP his two 105 kanyong howitzer at the back of the public schools of Bagumbayan and, of the river of Kabacan in Barangay Binay, Magpet.
Up to 122 families were forced to evacuate the area due to the severity of the bombing.

Last April 1, in the operation of the military kasagsasagan AFP, pinasabugan of the Pulang warriors BHB of command detonated explosive (CDX) a siksbay learned that the reimporsment while traversing the haywey in Purok 4, Mateo, Kidapawan City.
Because of this, derailed the military operation of the AFP in the area.

In the same day, the inambus Pulang warriors a Tim of the 8th IB in Barangay Sampaguita, Kibawe, Bukidnon.
Two soldiers were killed.
After the ambush, naghulog of eight bomb the airplane of the AFP in the area to kill to Jenis Maguate, a civilian.
Was also killed a few animals used in the field due to the bombing.

Straight to the bombing and attack of the civilians of the AFP inilulusot community, the operation against alleged to Ka Parago, Commander of 1st Pulang Bagani Company.
Nakakuta in the mountains of North Cotabato-Bukidnon, Parago.
But the truth is, the military operation was shot-SALAKAY of the AFP in pagparusa of BHB to Patrick Wineger, an important aset of the AFP, the perpetrators in the murder of Fr.
Fausto Tentorio.

Couldn't be made up for with AFP of any defamation to BHB the horrible the crime it against the citizens of Mindanao.
Part of this is the widespread militarisasyong to bear fruit of the ekstrahudisyal that the murder of the like of Father.
Tentorio and there are still a lot of violation of human-people.



