Watch versus dengue, leptospirosis

While the many nagkakarambola about the politics, the Bro, we give attention to the illness that dumarapo to us this rainy season.
Especially the dengue and leptospirosis.
Although't treated, there are still many deaths and of course, there are many ends up in hunger and poverty.
Especially if you think about it, the majority are poor.
Some record lets see some of the record, the Bro, about this illness.
This August, there were hit by dengue that 2,166 in Zamboanga and 15 were hired by the Lord to them.
Others were are and died in other provinces.
We still followed the about leptospirosis and naiuulat died in Bacolod City.
But last October 2013, is what happened that started in the month of January.
There are more than 131,000 cases of dengue and natodas the 470.
There are cases of leptospirosis, 1,964 took that and there, Lord 307.
That is how strong is the dengue and leptospirosis.
That is why do not be complacent here, especially this rainy season is getting the illness to them.
Almost the same study, the Bro, the itinatakbo in hospitals that are sick of dengue and leptospirosis.
Up to three weeks pagkakaospital of the patient.
If the patient is able to live, the amount of the expenses in the span of three weeks.
Moderate 20-30 million the expenses of this.
But for the poor only until it while hundreds of thousands of pesos to million to the rich.
What if hit the two, three or the whole family?
Except the expenses that this is the fare, money and payment for the guards.
If you are a worker, two or three months salary "that.
That's why it's certain that you would run in the usurero paid and asked for help.
And there you mababaon in debt.
P20,000-P40,000 dead in the funeral parlor you, you are not yet can't forgive the funeral parlor.
In the province, can you are not going to use the funeral parlor and could not blessing of the priest nagpapabayad the drop of the Holy water in your body if you want to be frugal.
You are just called to Manang and dadasalan you rosaries, in the span of nine days and may coffee and the only isusukli kakanin you to them to take 40 days.
But it is the additional expense "unlucky when you are in the hospital.
You will pay in the hospital of 20,000 pesos-P30,000 Plus the an extra expenses in taking care of the patient, this is also the sisingilin you the funeral parlor.
Pwera the expenses for the wake.
So, in general, the Bro, you will dry up the P40,000 up to 80,000 pesos.
If you are out that the minimum salary, some people who you pagbabayaran in usurero or paid your illness or death?
EKSTENSYONG tremendous TAKOT Napaiiyak that we are just in the news and comes to us that asks for help.
Many cases will not be the patient in the hospital because there is no money to complete, even in morge if he got unlucky.
If your body is released, many are napopospon makaipon the burial because it is not in the right time for the victim to this.
That's why it's doing work.
There is running to captain, mayor, Gob, DSWD, PCSO and others.
In Manila, carrying a relative to death certificate to ipanghingi to beg for the jeepney driver.
Why did not pupwedeng maglibing if there is no death certificate from the hospital, the municipal hall and others because of the lack of payment.
Just luck the help of those who have pasaklang dead.
What, if there is the end of the police, you are dead.
More pospon of burial will await you.
Oh "nakaiiyak" that, isn't it?
What the are to do?
To avoid or lessen the only our illness or too much suffering from the illness, it's good that we esep-esep well.
First, do not tamaring went to the barangay health centers so we will know the symptoms of the disease.
If we have the symptoms, pagtiyagaan we went to the center and you consult.
Do not daraanin in strength, especially if the children, elderly, pregnant, and who has the symptoms of them.
If you will only then emergency that, if you are dead.
Second, help a lot of knowledge on how to get the disease.
Said, from the mosquitoes with dengue while from the urine of rats and other animals in the leptospirosis.
But how can be eradicated or avoid the mosquitoes in the area and how we just fight the lepto that really, which is spreading and especially in tagbaha?
Magkakalepto you.
Third, do not forget the relationships.
The fellow, neighbors and others to help us in the fight this illness.
The both the magtatakbo us in the hospital, the mauutangan in time of need and we are ready to help even without a replacement.

Ultimatum / Benny Antiporda



