Dear K, I avoid him already, pls.

Jerome Tagaro again at the start of the classes, there is that the troop every time we enrolment: Long lines, humid weather, and when going out.
Also included here is the search for klasrum of the retrieved subjects, pakikipagkilala in the new classmate, recognition and pagtatantiya in the new professor.
But in all of my friends, I can be considered as one of the best.
I met him last stepping in college, and he was not able to me nilubayan since then.
It is still mapapadalas our bonding with one't one now, especially't there are two years I still be spent on UP.
He is the kind of friend mapanghimasok.
When I was with her, I cannot forget what I should do.
He will be in the dictates of semestre.
't as long as it is possible, I consumed all the allowable absences in each one subject.
This friend that determines when and where I am liliban.
Perhaps he is a friend of the majority of the students of UP.
There is that he is just an acquaintance or "is'y classmates only, and there are also almost sibling, maybe he's.
Why is it that's why because of the influence of my friend to our students?
You can't really tell if he really humihirap only the subject as time goes by, or are the only doing, especially to those who have sinasalihang orgs, or really become lazy people from the UP while in the university.
In this way, it is important for our to go back to what really is the reason why we are in the university.
Whether it be personal or idinikta to us by chance, it is important for us to remember when it so we are not maligaw again in the way tatahakin.
Maybe you are here to when the time comes, to serve the country, to help with your parents, or just to'y you have done in your life but no matter what reason it, it should not stop in pushing for us to learn.
You are a friend of laziness in a very long time, it does not mean that you mahuhulog continues in the trap in life college.
You again to commemorate the inspiration you.
But the paglingon you again on the basis of your actions, you also lay out the cement in the path that your tatahakin.
It is important to remember our parents nagbabanat bones, to pay the tuition, we love your relatives and children that the pallet-notebook, and the tax of people who pays for their our all.

He lumalayo to me every time I think of all of these.
From now, it is more often that they will, I just hope that she will stay away from me.



