Ipilit

The truth is, we do not need a lot of money to be happy.
The often conflict is just that, if there is no money and many to think that the problem but if we would want to be happy, there is a way, especially this Christmas season.
This is the principle being implemented by the local government units of QC.
Despite the widespread call to not hold a Christmas party, he is the leadership of Mayor Bistek Bautista and Vice Mayor Joy Belmonte not to remove the spirit of Christmas for the residents.
'yo saw the naggagandahang off in the city hall and the QC Circle, nakaaangat really is the heart and making.
The big money spent here?
The news I contribution to contribute to the residents who have the ability.
Also did not miss the Christmas gift of the mayor.
Yes, and when the party, but that does not mean that it is not pasasayahin on the day of the Christmas is the residents.
Of QC also understand the situation of our countrymen in the area who were affected by the typhoon Yolanda and the earthquake.
They are the ones who lost all the properties and left, how can they sasaya now?
But, one of the local government of the QC in the first sympathize with those affected.
Mayor Bistek and given VM Belmonte of the help that 50 million pesos to the victim.
I hope and makapagpasaya manawari would reach the money that the contribution of those in Quezon City.
This is not the first sympathy of QC of Filipinos who were victims of the calamity.
Even before, saanman need, first in line with the QC in the country who are ready to contribute to help.
It is important to QC happy communities, and this is what led to Mayor Bistek, Vice Mayor Joy to the ipilit "sprit of Christmas holiday" in the entire city.
That's why we, if you want it to be.
We will be able to help more of those he is lonely if we cannot dadamayan but still included in our pagsasaya.
A little things, good light, a little contribution to the poor countrymen, is fine.
What is important, work hard the government that we are mapasaya.



