
Yanayokamatwa vehicles yakisafirisha illegal immigrants yataifishwe-Masauni

It has been written by Prisca Libaga, details, Arusha

Imechapishwa: 19 September 2016

The government has ordered the Department of Immigration to ensure inasimamia laws by kuyakamata and kuyataifisha all vehicles to transporting illegal immigrants from outside the country.

Also, the government had warned the involved in the network of transporting illegal immigrants to stop immediately and to look for another job of doing because the government is keen to control illegal immigrants.
That order has been issued by the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Hamad Yusuf Masauni, when he visited the border in Tanzania and Kenya Namanga area at the end of the week, to see the challenges that are border so and understand the real situation.
Masauni warned that the servants of the department that if the vehicle litakamatwa in any area in the country and illegal immigrants through the border, they will be wameidanganya kuidhihirishia that government and their duties will be yamewashinda.
He said together with the expressed satisfaction with the steps taken by the department of Immigration Namanga controlling illegal immigrants, is still a shortcut used by those immigrants one in collaboration with one of the few Tanzania who are doing the work to be paid wages, taking against the law.
Urged the department to use the few resources to work together with a few ilivyonavyo waumishi who are so as to control the loopholes that is used by those immigrants.
Also, he ordered the patrol from time to time and strengthen the inspection inside the vehicles in order to establish illegal immigrants.
He said the department operates in difficult environments due to the shortage of equipment, the size of the area was insufficient thus appealed to citizens to help exposing illegal immigrants.
And Longido District Commissioner, Daniel Chongolo said the department is facing challenges that are border so there due to the size of the area of the border so inashindwa controlling the area fully.
Previously, the head of the department in the area of Namanga, Abdalah Katimba, said they are facing various challenges, including a shortage of staff and equipment.


