
Parliamentary committee of the constitution zizingatie views of citizens APR 3, 2014

The Constitutional Assembly is in his seventh week out of 10 lilizopewa previously, and is this week is involved in an opportunity to officially open the draft constitution; document only important and uliokabidhwa to members of parliament, a new constitution wautumie.

That are remaining days for the purpose of discussing the document is very few than used to create policies zitakazoongoza the parliamentary debates, and even if the historic zitaongezwa 20 others, according to the law, perhaps zisitoshe hard to complete the work.

It's not our goal kulaumu a long time to lead them uliotumiwa principles of delegates, because we know the importance of the existence of strong regulations; even if they are that zimeshavunjwa before even hazijaanza being used and we do not say that is not uliosalia time.

Tunachoamini that is more important in the period to discuss the draft, is to members to consider the opinions of citizens; that is what it wanayataka issues that the citizens in their constitution, for their own benefit in everyday life, and future generations.

We are not the first this call and we will not be the last one to do so, but we must continue to request kuyazingatia members of citizens because in many debates was from Dodoma, many delegates kusukumwa and seems's attitudes and opinions of their parties.

Examples are many, but the major open and is one of the kind to be used in useful votes to pass the sections of the draft constitution, a small issue but lililowagawa members from political ideology without caring what the citizens wanakitaka from them.

Even when the regulations zilipopindishwa deliberately about who is between the president and the chairman of the Constitutional Review Commission is supposed to be the first one to address the parliament; political ideology and kivyama's attitudes ilitawala even if by citizens of a normal the issue well.

And now there are all indications of the existence of pressure from outside the parliament after leaders of kisisasa parties that are outside the Dodoma saying that they will start the journey to visit the whole country waunge encourage citizens to support the system of the coalition that is required by the party concerned.

Tunajiuliza, this mean?
These tour zitalisaidia how the Constitutional Assembly?
The government has which stand in this?
So, parliament has no capacity to being left to command and once this tour of can foolish kuzusha feelings and violence among the Wa Tanzania.

We know and know that most of the time to give their opinion about the constitutional changes was brought by the ulikwishamalizika.
For now, it is the turn for the members of the Constituent Assembly to discuss Dodoma; those finishing, then itakija shifts of citizens voting itakayotengenezwa draft Dodoma.

Now "upupu" unaopelekwa to citizens during this cannot put their views in the draft is located in Dodoma what if it is not free at confusing the Tanzania who only Lazi iliyombele them is to vote in the referendum?

That is why we would love kuwashuhudia wakiijadili delegates draft without pressure from outside the Dodoma or their parties, but by considering the views of the citizens and especially contained in watakazozitumia documents during this debate these documents; among them is the draft, Randama of the draft constitution, the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania and that of Zanzibar.


