
Fire now walipuka customs tax May 22, 2012

The corruption scandal in customs tax unit of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) at the port of Dar es Salaam linalohusisha evading taxes of billions limeingia new chapter, Good Citizen likithibitishiwa that have already been taken action and already some of the officers wameenguliwa at expression to positions within 14 days

In the details of the evidence that have been taken action, the chairman of the board of TRA, Doctor.
Marceline Chijoriga, amelieleza Good Citizen earlier this week that, the former commissioner of the tax Territory ameengeliwa in that position so that the procedures of the investigation against the allegations zinazomhusu together with other concerned parties to be completed.

According to the news of the investigation of a long time for this newspaper, corruption of government revenue in the Port of Dar es Salaam has been involving one company that deals with the sale of equipment at home which started its operations in the year 2004, those ikiendeshwa and traders with all Arab origin who are named to partner with some of the leaders and senior officials of TRA kuiibia country revenue.

In his release at the end of the May and early June this year, the newspaper reported that the theft of revenue at the port of Dar es Salaam, where one company has been helping the private traders others evading taxes on billions.

But in his speech and Good Citizen attention, in which considers the scope of the law of the work, Doctor.
Chijoriga said; "we have begun to take action... although our investigations are complete, for now, you cannot say one by one is certain mainly those problems... is still a suspect," said and added that the;

Internal "giving TRA (unit of the inspection of inside-TRA) did his work since April and to present its report to me about the loss of revenue, mentioned those involved... now there are two who are in different areas of employment.
There are those involved who are employees of TRA but these are employees of the board and deputy commissioners from commissioners from and even the managers, but there are also those involved others are employed by the management of TRA, "

"Now to work procedures, I who is the chairman of the board nashughulikia these who have their contracts of employment and the board and management inashughulikia others.
The step tulizokwishachuku until now is requiring imwondoe management customs commissioner Bateyunga impangie different another job while the investigation is underway.

"But also Bateyunga tumempelekea allegations zinazomhusu as zilivyoainishwa and Internal Report giving to azijibu within 14 days if the law of zinavyotaka work, after his answers, we will know what to do.
Therefore for now, we cannot say is true was involved to get the information and all his colleagues, "said Doctor.
Chijoriga.

When he was asked why the suspect continues to work although in different responsibilities in the previous employer that is dangerous and destroy evidence are strictly adhering to the law, he emphasized the work.
Part of those talks between the Doctor.
Chijoriga and the author of this newspaper were right.

A citizen Mwema: Why is suspect other responsibilities, the employer and the one that anayemtuhumu and who also anamchunguza?

Doctor.
Chijoriga: Tufuate must work laws zinavyotaka not my own inclination or the board.
Work laws zinatutaka kutomchukulia stern action more without being satisfied to listen to his explanation.
Remember the report with the explanation that judgment except carrying kuyajibu should not only allegations.

A citizen Mwema Huoni: Can use that opportunity to disrupt forcing the evidence and especially considering that the network of the suspects is huge inside and outside the TRA... why mmeshindwa suspend maybe if ilivyotokea by the office of the land Kinondoni District?

Doctor.
Chijoriga: We cannot close the office suddenly need income that is why tumemwondoa when he was the beginning.
But that is one part of that action be taken later.

In another step, when he was asked about the action against the business people who were involved in legitimate to evade paying taxes through that company devices at home, Doctor.
Chijoriga said the investigation will be by that those involved will have to pay a tax throughout the walichokwepa since they started the game until now.


