
The fans of Mbeya City WATIWA MBARONI

January 11, 2013 six fans of Mbeya City team have been arrested by the police force in Mbeya province FC being involved with the violence that occurred just after the end of the match between Mbeya City and Prisons that was played on October 28, this year the Sokoine Stadium.
Speaking with the writer of this news on the telephone Mbeya Regional Head of Investigations, Robert Mayala said those fans were arrested just after the chaos and found that that is the fans of Mbeya City due to some of the leaders of the team to the police station for the purpose of helping.
That Head of upepelezi said the suspects who were involved in the chaos, the problems that caused the Prisons kupasuliwa screens and injured, two players have been charged in the courts of Mwanzo Mbeya recently and their case is expected to be heard again today.
He added that today will meet with the leaders of the party in Mbeya Region (MREFA), together with the leaders of Mbeya City team, so as to discuss the issue which has been as practice right now due to the violence that this is not the first time happened.
He said right now wanapanga special strategies to control violence every after the match, where they are planning to the procedure kuzisindikiza the team after the match ended up to the camp, because the violence occurred during zimeondoka team on the pitch.
On his side, the secretary general of the MREFA, Suleiman Haroub said as the party they are working on it that issue and all watahakikisha that were involved and the chaos, wanafikishwa in front of the law because they cannot support those issues if.
"Us if the party cannot kufumbia eyes kihuni issues like this and I believe these are few wahuni, which they have come to disrupt and destroy peace located in sports including football" in Mbeya Province, he said.
Haroub said he believes between the suspects, there are also fans who is not their objective is to not cheering but to cause chaos.
Mbeya fans have been requested to refrain and violence but wachukulie the ball as happy, they can and finish up in peace.
Violence ziliwahi like these occur again in the stadium during the Sokoine zilipokutana Yanga and Mbeya City at the opening of the Mainland Tanzania Premier League match where it is claimed that the fans of Mbeya City did a great violence and motor vehicle screens destroying the leaders of the Yanga.
In that match that ended in a draw for both teams 1-1


