
RC Morogoro aziita Simba, Yanga

It has been written by John Nditi, Morogoro

Imechapishwa: 04 October 2016

Morogoro Regional Commissioner Doctor Stephen Kebwe amezialika soccer teams of Simba and Yanga at the Republic of Morogoro after kuzuiwa and the government using the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.

Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye recently announced the old team kuzipiga banned the use of the National Stadium due to his fans that the destruction of infrastructure including breaking outstanding mageti and'oa chairs in the Premier League match iliyoikutanisha that rocks at the end of last week.
Doctor Kebwe said that when he spoke with the leaders of Morogoro Football Association (MRFA), the leadership of the Republic and the players of the soccer team of Morogoro Police together with their leaders, after the completion of the First Division League game against Njombe town recently in that stadium.
That head of province said anaunga support the decision of the minister Nape kuzizuia those teams that many fans to use the stadium.
"At the National Stadium have been built and our friends of China by using a big cost which is rent of citizens... Yanga and Simba wameitia losses the government and because they don't have a chance to use it that stadium we welcome come using the stadium because there is no outstanding seats'olewa," said Doctor Kebwe.
So he ordered the leadership of the Republic to start producing a renovation of infrastructure and the area and play for the other games to ukidhi modern standards to play for the games nationally and internationally.
"I three months to leaders of this stadium kuukarabati start to be of more modern from the areas including athletics, football and netball Wavu, hands and when you are in those standards we welcome to invite Yanga and Simba come play for the Jamhuri Stadium," said Doctor Kebwe.
Moreover, Doctor Kebwe aliisifu the soccer team of Morogoro Police to start well the First Division League in his group waongeze urged more efforts and strategy by following the instructions of their teachers to play better in the next games within and outside of the region.
I would like to see "Morogoro Police team inapanda... is the Premier League maaana the provincial government and various stakeholders inside and outside wameelekeza their strength to support this team to be able to perform well and eventually icheze Premier League next season," said Doctor Kebwe.
He said so as to promote the soccer game and others, it is good for the leadership of the airport, to take action for repair different areas to be used.
On his side, the chairman of MRFA Pascal Kihanga said, the province has intended to see Morogoro Police team returns to play the Premier League players and urged sports stakeholders wajitume because of them.
The Police Commander of the province of Morogoro Ulrich Matei, said the team is a property of the citizens of that province so they have to to support inapofanya inauletea good reputation because the whole province and the police force in Morogoro.


