
The dressing careless Housing to worship it is possible more difficult be understood but that is the truth itself.
Some of the women have been the problems it's not just for men, but even to their fellow women around them.
Kilichonisukuma writing this topic, is this tendency of some of these women stara lack of their bodies and decided to put on their empty yanayoonyesha dressing publicly.
Others have been doing that on a pretext of going and when, my are still hainiingii in the brain.
Those now in wameenda before more and to make dhihaka even in houses of worship.
Surely in terms of the clothing is good to know that there is a place, every its procedure of dressing wanauita whites' dress code '.
Clothes to the office is not the same as that inayovaliwa funeral, or the funeral is not the same as that inayovaliwa at the celebrations.
The dressing teacher is not the same as that of the doctor.
These things Hayaishii there, because huendelea until in houses of worship.
In the period recently kumezuka fashion a new house of worship as part of the beauty competition, especially for women.
Mnawavalisha worse your children clothing yasiyoendana completely and Tanzanian culture.
What naked dressing mnayopendelea nyinyi, those are the mnataka kuwavalisha and children.
Again in places of worship.
I don't know what especially mnataka making.
Sikatai that every one of us is supposed to be clean in front of God but this cleaning haumaniishi to wear pants of blocking, to stop some of a very sensitive areas of the body outside or to wear short clothes!
I understand that you all mnaelewa attended a special clothing to wear in the house of worship and instead deliberate mnafanya.
I think this is ulimbukeni and not otherwise.
Naelewa not mnaofahamu nyinyi many effects of clothing to wear yasiyofaa mnapoenda especially at the altar they holy places like the God.
And laiti mngeelewa msingethubutu even one day to wear those dressing.
When I speak about the altar they think everyone of you understand that is what religious especially ninayoilenga.
Among those effects were children establish first is worried about their, she.
Because they will be wakifuata mnavyofanya way 'you mliowatangulia and thus to wear those dressing yasiyofaa church.
And normally hawataishia children.
Because the act of entering and vimini vitawatia church majaribuni believers a boy, something litakalosababisha hope about them.
In that logic there will be no ideas of God again, except the administration of the devil.
To say the truth from the heart that, in this, I don't have a problem with all the female members of the Islamic religion.
Since they wanaelewa arrive how to wear while in their places of worship.
Hujisitiri especially if their religious books vinavyoamuru.
And because they don't have the procedure of kuchanganyika during this service to them is still not very problem.
These in yasiyofaa dressing, I would like 'you couples kuwageukia and especially the girl.
Ninachoelewa me is that usually mnapata training for different types of at least one week before the marriage.
Class on the day of the clothing that marriage is one of the training.
Interestingly of worship day of marriage, mnakuja madhabauni open but Mkiwa.
Right while is forgetting or arrogant?
Muogopeni let your God.
Heshimuni house of worship.
There is not part of clothing is kuonyeshana sehemutu meeting in your mind and your God.
Therefore it is not bad ukajiandaa well into the environment.
Is to wear what your yanayaokubalika to God and not otherwise.
This issue of inserting 'fashion Police' at the doors of churches is embarrassing for believers and the church in general.
Because, in the brain hainiingii mwenzenu instead of getting pray the Novena, will stay mlangoni inspecting kavaa Kiha who?
Badilikeni!
Muogopeni your God, vaeni if your books ilivyoamriwa at the religion, as MNAHITAJI workers angaalieni examples of the church or masista wanavyovaa, that is the correct answer the functions required dressing kuvaliwa in your house of worship.


