TRA there is what?
The government itupe information Nov 24, 2016 Njonjo of Mfaume in Makala

Last Sunday, the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Doctor.
John Magufuli made the appointment of the chairman of the board of directors of the board of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Bernard Mchomvu.
Together with the board chairman, the whole of TRA also ilivunjwa.

This step came when there is a rumor zinaenea that the state of revenue are not well in TRA.
Rumors states government revenue yameshuka, contrary to the information provided by the government zinazohakikishia citizens that the state of the economy is good.
Part iliyoathirika more is the port.

The report kutenguliwa selection of Mchomvu and broken by the board has brought in various arenas debates, especially on social media.
Wanahoji people like the state of revenue is good and TRA has been ikivuka the goals, change what is what?

Rumors, worry and the debate gets more strength because it is not the procedure of President Magufuli to provide information and reasons to take any decision anaouchukua.
But, by whatever means, because these haikuvunjwa board just recently.
There is a reason.
What is going on TRA?

Announcement of the broken the board of TRA has been issued on Sunday, something lililoshangaza many.
There is security there?
Or is the reduction in the savings very kibubu and now get the leaders kiwewe and finding mchawi?
What is going on in especially jikoni?

Kibano severe blow!

The rearrangement of the board of TRA is being seen by many in the context of the state of affairs that changed since President Magufuli entered power, where he has taken many measures of blocking misuse and sealed loopholes of evading taxes.

We remember Mshindo showing great and kugunduliwa by thousands of the containers that were passed in the port without pay tax.
President aliwabana business people who were involved in evading taxes and kuwalazimisha pay.
That step of collecting debts ilienda waliokwepa paying taxes in line with legal action to prevent new evading tax.

On the second side of the government of the fifth phase of President Magufuli taken stern action of blocking the use in government.
This step and it is believed that very imeathiri private sector which has been greatly ikiitegemea government as the head of its customer service.

Among the steps cut spending alleging causing defeated by the private sector is haphazard use of public funds through occasions, the seminar, forums, meetings, the commemoration, celebrations and foreign trips.
In these use you will see those funds were zinaenda binafi sector.

There are reports of the business in the private sector kudondoka, especially those that were zikitegemea the government.
Some of the media have reported that some of the entrepreneurs have lost their bail walizoweka to pray for loans including buildings and grounds.

While hundreds of buildings and vimeuzwa compensate grounds debts loans, many people wamebadili also style of life.
Now people reduced, and increasing drinking beer drinking sachets and divergence has reduced!

The government says it now everyone ajiingizie legally income and there is no again depending on the deal in the city.
The report states that some of the entrepreneurs wakifilisika not after their businesses faltering and repaying loans they received from banks and other financial institutions.

Already has been one bank dafrau, and the reports show that the profit in another bank retail.
So, this situation bad mwanguko of the private sector has a relationship and shake up uliopelekea TRA board broken?

Debates on the internet, but it is maybe: Feelings, because maybe.
Mchangiaji one of the social network Forum wrote: "Things were not moving (Magufuli) anakimbilia removing people so if the problem is, he himself is growing up under tight your leaders are failing make everything kinasimama wanakuangalia only you, that is why this anakonda.
Things are not moving ".

Akaandika: Another "this relatives is very mharibifu.
I have never seen a leader with holding grudges like this.
Now as TRA is crossing unaivunjaje goals board?
You want wafanyeje now more than "aim to cross?

Akatabiri: "And another that the work to elect and undo the ataifanya until 2020 then let down to again" pushup "during the campaign instead of talk about the industries.
Even awabadili haitasaidia every month.
What is needed is back in round government money to the people they started the business and they can be both buyers owe taxes.
Wonder can akateua the chairman of CCM who has no even "profession.

Mdukuzi one said: "Kashitukia those data to be cooked along?
Tunawaambia every day wameshajua anaopenda to hear their music and music wanaongeza hawabadili themselves but only voice.
There is no revenue.
Is only "fake data.

Another citizen ": He said he was not going goals Nilitarajia mvuka kutumbuliwa now I don't know what kimetokea?
JPM hatakagi kupikiwa ignorance of data.
Don kaomba akaongeze at a Bombardier akaambiwa they don't have the money that is there the anger zikampanda "akawatumbua.


