
Ukishangaa Van Persie you will see Kiprotich of Aug 22, 2012

The big news of the games last week, it was the issue of the transfer of the player Robin Van Persie to go to Manchester United from Arsenal.
The media have written about that a salary of the player for a week will only unakaribia 500 million shillings in Tanzania.
Is a lot of money, a lot.
However, in neighboring countries completely and us, Uganda, there are our colleague ameukwaa wealth because of the work of just one day.
Is called Stephen Kiprotich, mwanariadha of that nation aliyetwaa the gold medal in the Marathon race of the Olympic championships this year.
Until yesterday, I hear ready was amechangiwa and stakeholders and various companies amount of approximately 500 million shillings in Tanzania.
Shortly, to an extent that Van Persie atakitolea sweat for a whole week, Kiprotich amekipata for one day only.
Again doing the work of running only.
Hajapigwa shoes.
Hajapigwa "vipepsi," hajatukanwa and fans and more, he got the money akitumikia his nation and not the club which unaifanyia work not for love but because search of livelihood.
Next week, Van Persie 500 million enter another.
Kiprotich will have to card to other competitions yaje.
As's game having, already President Yoweri Museveni has promised that his government will be giving 400,000 dollars for every mwanamichezo atakayeiletea medals his country in big competitions.
Issue that I want to kuileta to you today is that there is a lot of money so much in the sports sector if every one of us executing equally express his responsibilities.
As our nation limeambulia patupu at the Olympic championships, the reason to fail there cannot be Filbert Bayi or the National Olympic Committee (TOC) alone.
Sababau cannot be Selemani Nyambui and Tanzania Athletics Association.
Reason cannot Makore Mashaga and the World Boxing Association of Tanzania.
Even the news agencies have our is part of the problem.
Siamini inakuaje Tanzania ilikosa even one journalist at the Olympic tournament that took place in London, England this year.
Even if Tanzania had only seven athletes in the tournament, still ilitakiwa at least one representative to the Apostolic aripoti what is going on and also can learn why Ethiopia, Kenya and Uganda zimetuacha far in games when they were behind us in the previous years.
Our agencies vimebaki that only the internet.
And that is why, sikushangaa one day the journalist them to ask a question Bayi question that why the team is doing exercises Kibaha in the summer during England cold there.
Showed clearly that the author that, again a great writer, he did not know that this is during the dry season in Europe and that is even the Olympic championships was recognized as the Olympic drought.
But, if the author has never to travel or hajapelekwa in competitions, atajuaje these things?
This is a very common jiografia but people wawezeshwe.
Today, our agencies haviripoti completely about anayovuna mafedha Kiprotich.
How alivyolala poor and woke up rich because of doing well in athletics.
The youth who want to be very passionate wangetiwa athletes and the success of Kiprotich.
The fact that the contributions for the purpose of this mwanariadha ilibuniwa and operated by the government of Uganda newspaper the New Vision.
Sijaona our agencies vikiripoti that for this year, mwanamichezo aliyeingiza a lot of money in the world is more mwanariadha of Jamaica, Usain Bolt.
That until anafariki the world last year, mwanariadha of Kenya, Samuel Wanjiru, she was already has got a gift worth more than one and a half million dollars (approximately two and a half billion shillings for Tanzania), in a period of three years only!
Every day all of us tunazungumzia wanasoka huge salaries alone.
Tunasahau that people can kutajirika for other to play many games.
Manny Pacquiao (Pacman) ameubadilisha completely aliokulia estate in Manila, Philipines, because of the money alizovuna on the game of boxing.
It's impossible that Tanzania athletes are out of stock.
This is the nation which limezalisha high level athletes such as Bayi, Nyambui, Titus Simba, Habib Kinyogoli, Mwinga Mwanjala, Nzaeli Kyomo and others.
I have faith, talent there are many again.
The problem is that all of us want kulaumu or we would like to be in the position of kulaumu but not to take appropriate measures.
The government gets done right to give our flag during the team wants to leave to go to mashindanoni.
Uganda have promised to provide 600 million for every bronze.
We are only flag!
Government must ithamini and to make enough investments in games.
We must all the games that can be played here in the country to be played and children waijue.
Three weeks ago, Uganda has got its champion in the first game of the woman Chess since gets Uhuru.
Who anacheza Chess here in Tanzania?
Anatoly Kasparov, former champion of the game in the world, alitengeneza a lot of money because of the game.
Us here tumekaa kulaumu alone and Chess haichezwi.
Our nation, the only limebaki soccer.
Every day soccer.
Every week soccer.
Every year soccer.
We cannot go this way but it is a must for the government to effective measures to put this sector.
Tukipata Kiprotich women, Bolt, Wanjiru, and Pacman, our country this itabadilika.
Wataajiri these people and the economy utazunguka.
And those living because of the strength of the economy of these athletes, also wataiheshimu games.
Bayi analaumiwa and every person because of doing badly in our nation.
But, I request to ask, what is another person who spends a lot of time on improving its more here in Tanzania athletics?
The government inamsaidiaje to get the best athletes?
The media vinasaidiaje kumotisha wapende people more than other games soccer?
As a journalist he doesn't know that this tournament is Summer Olympics, atamsaidiaje normal young man apende that mwanariadha?
As Bayi by women wanasakamwa Nyambui kana that they are the future of the biggest problem in the country, who atataka that mwanariadha?


