The government ipige banned the packaging plastic 12 January, 2017 of Gideon Shoo

Drugs is imekuwapo topic in the media for a long time.
The debate about the problem of the use of drugs and has been kuiibuka being made for several decades now.

Were held various research about the effects of the use of drugs.
Are aiming at research in checking mihadarati incorporate inayotumiwa loopholes in the country, the size of the business mihadarati, and also the use of mihadarati mihadarati inside the country.

However, together with more research and various recommendations about the different researchers to take action to eliminate the problem of the country use mihadarati, still every uchao tunashuhudia how the problem linavyozidi grow.

It is true that the biggest problem mihadarati leads the very dangerous disease known as meaning uteja overcame the vice.
Disease who overcame the vice is very dangerous process the patient should be dependent on those drugs trafficking and humuondoa in a group of people with the brain timamu.

Someone with hushindwa overcame the vice think if someone and another common survive in their own world which humuondoa in the group strength in the community.

But when we are looking for a way of dealing with the importation of mihadarati tukajiangalia here in the country is important here in the country because there isn't a group of people who overcame the vice penetration and what tunachoweza branding mihadarati iliyohalalishwa that is alcohol.

Is very true that mihadarati family kokeni and heroini is a big business inayopigwa war all over the world.
Moreover, mihadarati that is very big business which to be making billions by billions of money.
Wanaofadhili those business is big rich with the ability to buy anything as well as their freedom.

But when we persist so much making noise about the mihadarati from outside the country, there is a problem that is halitupiwi eyes appropriately and discussed with it that is above of nililosema overcame the vice that come from alcohol.

I have ever written last year that ninachoishi village in the North Machame Wari Sinde, that there is a disease called vabresheni.
This is resulting from disease overcame the vice of alcohol.

Overcame the vice of strict alcohol has been a big problem in our community.
This is not the issue because the secret wanalijua leaders and instead of shall continue to find and wanajifanya drugs such as there is no problem.

Data for the researchers is saying that there are Wa Tanzania with 300,000 nearly overcame the vice.
However, those statistics I don't think overcame the vice zinawahusisha with the alcohol, a problem that is now limesambaa all over the country.

Alcohol business hits with 35 to 45 from percent is taking place without following the rules, regulations and procedures.
Everyone who kigrosari or a shop of salt and oil sell alcohol severe.

Due to the sale of alcohol, the haphazard vichochoro vinageuzwa that all bars due to the ease of the availability of alcohol every time and therefore do you drinking and his plans or unaoeleweka procedure.

The government is required to take immediate action to deal with this problem by to review the issue of packages.

Right now there are different alcohol packaging conducted in the capacity of the plastic mililita 500 up to 100.
Packaging, this is easy kuvibeba and therefore you can found one person anavyo vinavyomuwezesha packaging to carry up to 1000 mililita which is one liter of alcohol severe.

Liquor hainywewi as beer.
Have these its procedure of using alcohol.
Our people, those who use alcohol hawafuati that procedure and certainly Tanzanians drinking like Tanzanians drinking alcohol like the iba, mbege, ulanzi, kimpumu and others.

The act of drinking alcohol like bitter alcohol is normal is very dangerous and can cause not only overcame the vice but even deaths.
But this is something which for a certain amount the government can contribute in kulipunguza his pace.

The government inawajibika revise that gave permission for the packaging plasitiki as one of the steps to reduce the ease of found those alcohol.

Moreover, that access easily has made even drinking yasiyoruhusiwa groups pomba get easily.
Right now there are alcohol with a taste of milk, tasted nanasi and other fruits and inawafanya even the children to be able to get and to use.
This is the greatest danger.
National while we see linaangamia.

Remove the plastic packaging will help in reducing the availability of alcohol severe.
Moreover, the step will help a lot in reducing environmental pollution who now umekithiri from all over the city to the villages.


