

Nairobi, Kenya Day wamegeuka that these people like animals.
Are brutal mental which for the usual a human being, you cannot kuvitenda.
One man in Kenya, Stephen Ngila Thenge (24), has confessed to cut the palms of both two hands his wife who they have been together for a period of seven years.
Thenge used a big knife severe blow and kusambaratisha of both hands that his wife for the crime of being unable to bear a children.
Despite that tunasema having majaaliwa it the Almighty God, this man was unable to persevere the examinations that he was given by God to the lack of a child, and therefore they find themselves akigombana and his wife regularly akimtuhumu why hamzalii children throughout the period of seven years walichoishi together.
That his wife, Jackline Mwende, from the village of Kathama, Masii in Machakos Wajir, his hands ilikatwa 24 July this year.
Apart from to be deducted of both hands and on the head injuries, he had come.
Hakuishia there that a man alimjeruhi also purukushani of his wife on the neck during a fight.
Akisimulia how lilivyotokea incident Mwende says "; on the reason kunituhumu that don't have the ability to bear a children, my husband decided to leave and go home to live nisikokufahamu for a period of approximately three months.
"Soon after his return to the other day on Saturday, only he opened the door told me that the day was the last one to me, he started kunishambulia using a machete" alilokuja with it.
Mwende says he tried making noise asked for help with the neighbors should help him, but it was impossible.
He says that after losing neighbors when they but everyone was kumshika fearing for fear may he died because he had a bad situation with a lot of blood zikimtoka.
"I don't know why he was akinilaumu that I don't have the ability to bear during last year tulikwenda to the hospital for checkups and my husband is aliyegundulika having problems.
"The doctor said my husband is the former and the problem... was not giving me the ability of pregnancy, however alitusisitiza that the problem can treatment and" frame, he says.
Mwende reveals that after those results, her husband who is the clothes in Masii town, he refused to follow up on the treatment while akimtuhumu that he is the one with the problems.
"He was does not want treatment... but despite the answers of the doctor, he still proceeded kuninyanyasa and kunipiga every day.
"But this is the journey has decided to completely kunijeruhi badly in various parts of my body.
"He has hurt me badly in different parts of the body, nimeumia on the head, come and even in the sexual", says Mwende.
Mwende says that in addition to maswahibu yaliyomkuta ameamu all to be left to God who believes that atamlipia again in time.
"Nilimpenda my husband sincerely but this is his payments so God is" atakayemuhukumu, he says.
Wakizungumzia that, his brothers are saying that the couple were with those problems and that many days Mwende wanted to leave her husband but one leader of alimshauri religious kumvumilia her husband and that there is a day God atashusha grace and those conflicts yataisha.


