
ALAT yatangazamgogoro and the government

December 2, 2014

The Local Government (ALAT) in Tanga province has announced the conflict and the central government ikidai some of the district commissioners, have been wakiwanyanyasa staff, the leaders of that authority is elected using kuwasweka behind bars.
The chairman of ALAT in that province, Bw.Sadick Kallaghe, made the remarks the day before yesterday at the session of the community that took place in Muheza, while emphasizing on a declaration kilichokaa their session Pangani District on September 22, 2013.
He said they are not ready to see any leader of Government anawanyanyasa the servants of the local government.
He added that, the central government imegawa power in local government as an illusion because a lot of money in the budget for every year in the council zinazopelekwa especially the development funds, zinafika to delay or hazifiki completely.
"His results citizens wanakosa faith and the leaders of the council, including politicians... there is no good relationship between the central government and local government here Tanga.
"Some of our workers they feel like they are oppressed wanapotekeleza their work, has reached a step even councilors wanawekwa inside but because the issue of the councilor of Mswaha Ward, in Korogwe Awesu Kipaku, is in court, we cannot" talking about it, he said.
He said the local government is full legal authority that was set up with the executive director, the chairman of the council, the heads of the department, councilors and other employees.
Kallaghe who is also the chairman of the district council of Korogwe and Dindira Ward, said he is one of the people waliodhalilishwa in his district and some of the members of parliament who visited the committee in that province in the year 2013 because some of them have their agenda "" pocket.
"At the leaders of the council and the parliamentary committee, the report provided it is not true, the member of parliament anasimama and said the council of Korogwe has received documents found this really dirty, where these data, my council never get contaminated title five years in a row," said Kallaghe.
He added that another thing linalowanyima sleep the local government leaders is the central government to announce to the citizens that "imemwaga" billions of council at the time is money for the salaries of the workers and those of development projects are not there.
Kallaghe said more than three months, the central government haijapeleka money from the council for the purpose of the grant of the normal expenditure (OC), money for development projects more than four months and those of the compensation which were abolished (GPG).
"Apart from these funds kutotolewa, there is still a lot of money in the council, while is zimepelekwa kutuchanganya citizens," said Kallaghe.
And the local government's officer in the province, Maggie Chande said local governments hazipati a lot of money as claimed by central government, therefore fail to implement many development projects instead the servants of the local governments have been wakitishwa and put inside.
"A leader you can lead them people to disperse or kuwakusanya, we must wisdom because hatuongozi animals... nimebaini wanachaguliwa leaders with this age, it's a problem, former anachaguliwa person at the age of more than 35 years," said Chande.
And the deputy mayor of the city of Tanga, Mzamil Shemdoe said some of the leaders wanalewa power where put inside worker, the executive of the village or the chairman does not eliminate the problems but increasing because his inside kun cold strike.
January 24 this year, Mister.
Kipaku aliwekwa inside on the order of the head of the district of Korogwe, Mister.
Mrisho Gambo is calling the general meeting of the village on January 21 and to encourage farmers to roasting maboma, mazizi'ombe cow the breeders on January 22 this year.
As a result of that situation, Mister.
Kipaku announced his resignation from that position claiming kudhalilishwa and Mister.
Gambo.
Speaking with, Mister time.
Gambo said politicians they are conflicts between farmers sometimes wanajinadi in the campaign getting power watawatoa breeders in the areas of farmers.


