

MAULI MUYENJWA, Dar es Salaam, there are many challenges which require men for cancer patients, especially for women who have breast cancer.
Those challenges have caused those patients giving up to continue with the treatment and decided to cut a dose and to return to their homes.
That situation happens after getting tired of struggle to find the money to afford the cost of drugs while wakizidi kunyanyasika while away to come to the Ocean Road Hospital (ORCI) which inashughulikia treatment and the investigation of the disease.
The biggest challenge that many victims beggars supported is together with the availability of medicine Chemotherapy that is given as treatment at the hospital.
Speaking recently during the launch of the Hope of a woman, one of those patients, Bihuda Shaiza says told those drugs are usually free wanapoziulizia but many times huambiwa zimeisha so is forced to buy at the outside shops where huuzwa expensive.
"Nimelipia that doses for the first round problems at a cost of shillings 200,000 after he was told that drugs haipatikani nilipo here in the hospital, I don't know the second and third doses nitaipata, says how" Shaiza.
Explains that he went to look for the service of Tanga province in Dar es Salaam after relatives who was helping being unable to afford the cost of a distance because it was difficult to serve while there.
Another patient, Mwajuma Mohamed, says the community is still haijaelimika enough about the disease and many women hawaendi hospital and believe that they can surgery and died.
Claims that the community of now in some of the areas and especially in the villages hawaamini if a patient of breast cancer can surgery and akapona.
Explains that even he alipogundua of having the disease in the year 2013 got his brother telling them they will not stop stuttering akiamini afanyiwe surgery to remove the breasts.
"Niliogopa telling walishafanyiwa because there are others who are known to be in a bad state and surgery and there are those who believe that even the treatment of radiation has effects.
"But after some time to go and I who was swelling umejitokeza nikafanya continues to grow, the decision to go to the hospital and waliponishauri getting equal I because there are ninaowajua who wamegoma booking and their situation is bad, so niliwashirikisha brothers and also agreed kunisaidia," says.
Mwajuma says there is still witchcraft faith about the disease and also there are people that believe that unaambukiza if those AIDS huwatenga cancer victims wakihisi can be infected.
And the Director of the Defense Forces Cancer support and Hope Faundation (TCS-Hope), Halima Kasungu, says many patients in rural areas have returned home after being unable to afford the cost of buying the drugs for all doses together with other problems that they get there walikofikia.
"Chemo medicine huuzwa very expensive, Tanzania low-income fail to afford.
Another Wkati huuzwa 300,000 shillings, therefore, the patients who came to follow people are service kukatiza dose, and decided to return to where they came from, "says Kasungu.


