
Journalists weee, to have things that are happening inafahamika, but journalists are as amplifier.
Their work is to speak out and those involved know, but wanajisahaulisha, its results are happening things publicly kweupee.
There are a lot.
Before the start of the Premier League season, the journalists in the article with the news of the usual walinukuu among various experts, many just to remind of before starting the league is supposed to all the players to test their health.
Had a very meaning.
I don't know if the work is being done to the players took place or more than 400 of the premier league teams, sidhani.
Is required to test the club of his players every time so as to solve the problem of the field and sometimes falling loss of life.
Among all.
Iliandikwa also that players are required to kukatiwa Health Insurance.
As a player will be offered with health insurance, it will help her to him and his family to pay little amounts of money.
Player will also enable even himself to test for his time.
I have no sure if all the players more than 400 have health insurance.
Last week was the sadness and grief upcoming loose, Ismail Mrisho Khalfan former while serving Mbao FC of U-20 in Bukoba.
I would say is the results of the leaders of the team kutosikiliza and or kujishughulisha to measure their players for various reasons.
That is a result of Bukoba, but look at the league have ended, every leader his mind is how atacheza its the cards for the second round, he will do what he can win the championship.
After the end in the first round of the Premier League, the truth sijasikia certain team has done tests for his players, even the picture kuzagaa mitandani, wanapima, there is no.
The first round has ended and now unakaribia second and the team have started the preparations, ilitakiwa checking health status; pressure is good enough?
Stability of the body ukoje?
Who is required to get the religious service?
In a row and get played by fatigue, warudishe the body to do what?
I have no sure if it has taken place.
This is one of the players to test this, there is the supervisors of the game to allow the game to continue without having the first service is complete.
There is one match ilichezwa Karume Stadium, Dar es Salaam.
Sikumbuki ninachokumbuka but who was and who is that, in the game, the player aliumia, so his colleague wambebe wamtoe outside to promote the game.
There are many events of sports but lacks the first service.
How it is possible to start the match referee yet there is no even car for the first service?
This is the work in practice.
The referee or the supervisor of the game is required, to inspect the if every region has been completed by collaborating with his assistants.
Many matches will be played but there is no the first service iliyotimia or service providers who are specialists in sports services, and maybe present, or do not have or don't have the experience and expertise that is only practice of having them in the field.
Especially careful not to people's desk the first service players, the loss of life.
Example, amepatwa player problem, concerned party. kumpigapiga anachojua is muscle, kumkanda and ice then, but if there will be other and wanachanganyikiwa.
There is the true experts.


