
Zanzibar not mageni, even Uskochi are Jun 01, 2012

Last week, the first Prime Minister, (first position that is if the Prime Minister) of Uskochi, Alex Salmond, alizindua campaigns of his party the Scottish Nationalist Party (SNP) to encourage the votes "no" in the referendum (the referendum) of the freedom of this country that is expected to take place in the future.
The issue of Uskochi kujitenga and England (because what is called The United great ministry of Britain-England, Uskochi and Wales- and Northern Ireland) has been ikivuma for a long time and has more strength after Salmond and his SNP came to power in 2007.
Basically, the main policies that politician and his party was to ensure that eventually Uskochi inajitenga from England.
Walipoingia power, SNP only explained clearly that they had a plan to make the referendum to hear opinions Waskochi about the idea of kujitenga.
However, an obstacle that have been wakikumbana it from the beginning is the fact that together with the differences in here and there, it is difficult for sketching Waskochi line that can separating the British and others.
Mwingiliano in every aspect of approximately currently lives these people become one more than the difference.
And when naandaa this article, Salmond "" has gotten bad news from a opinion polls (pollster) popular in England, Peter Kellner, the president of the Institute of opinion polls YouGov.
According to the referendum Kellner, YouGov and brand last Friday shows that when it is only 33 percent of Waskochi "want freedom" (kujitenga), 57 percent Uskochi they want to remain part of the United Kingdom.
A that opinion polls amemtahadharisha Salmond that "has a mountain to climb" to change the presence of many Waskochi about their country kujitenga and England.
Likewise, he explained that there are several "" threats that can contribute to many Waskochi to oppose the idea of kujitenga, and removed the example concerns as investors to quit Uskochi (for sure if not having Uskochi itamudu "standing itself"), lost grant from the government English Premier League (which is the biggest tax inayolipwa and Uskochi), the use of the currency of the English pounds (British Pound) where as Uskochi itaamua using the currency after kujitenga, England can start ukalifu action (austerity measures) zitakazoathiri Uskochi economy.
Likewise, Salmond ametahadharishwa that another fear that can kuwatisha Waskochi support the idea of kujitenga is together with the high cost of running in the country (especially during this period where the world's economy is unstable) like to be able to afford full force, the office of the Embassy foreign countries and operating costs of the institutions of public service (Civil Service).
Basically, in that exercise of voting, the state of not having a reliable or fear of "in how state" inatosha make many voters decided to remain with the current structure located in or party (if the referendum is something).
This means it is used widely by the ruling party (as well as CCM) during the general elections are usually where the message rage "zimwi likujualo halikuli likakwisha" (because of the party unachokifahamu is much better what kinachoahidi without having living examples of the leadership of the country).
However, Salmond and his SNP are continuing with their efforts while wakijipa faith that the current huge wealth Uskochi (there is oil in the North) will enable the afford the cost of running the country if the idea of Waskochi wataafiki kujitenga and England.
During Uskochi meanwhile here, at the end of the week at home where kumekumbwa some sad news demonstrations to oppose the union in Zanzibar yaligeuka that great chaos.
As nilivyoeleza at the Makala my message the voice (audio Messages, that can to hear here http: / / goo.gl / r6ngT), the chaos in Zanzibar and the whole issue of the union to be mtizamo vinapaswa.
Personally, I see that the origin of the problem of the union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar is its architects, that is, the late father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Abeid Karume.
Here I request nieleweke well.
The idea of the union had good by considering different reasons, including the closeness of the origin for people from the mainland and island.
But the problem which maybe lilichangiwa more and the political environment at that time, Nyerere and Karume their consent while that was inawakilisha Watanganyika and all the consent of Zanzibar.
There are "wisdom" one of the English that tells that "a good idea, it's not a must be beneficial.
For example, while giving a lot of food someone with hunger is a good idea, but its results can be led the even death in the person with severe hunger aliyeishia given "of food.
Yes, eat a lot of food when you are hungry and stern is dangerous, and that is why people wanapofunga or while hawajala long meal begins by a fire (porridge or tea).
Now, the idea of the union had good but many kutosaka consent is kumetufikisha here where we are now.
For a long time there have been manung'uniko about the union, especially among the Zanzibar people.
The main issue is that it has been wanapunjwa, wanaonewa and others are going more and claimed that the aim of the union had "" kuimeza Zanzibar.
Unfortunately, politics of Zanzibar difference to have a certain amount and of the mainland.
For religious in the Islands, has its own kind in politics.
Therefore, often political issues can also carry the religious feelings, something that without uangalifu can kuzua pestilence big.
I insisted that together with that risk to mix religion and politics, the experience and the history vimeonyesha that laiti wisdom and the interests of the community were in front of the private feelings, religion in politics, and the effects may not be right.
In the United States of America, for example, still has a unique religious position.
Maybe a good example of how can kutoharibu religious politics is where the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel (Christian Democratic Union-CDU) it is a.
CDU is a big a political party more in that nation rich.
Likewise, kinachotawala party in Turkey, Justice and Development Party-AKP party, is the Islam.
However, the party succeeded in making Turkey to continue to be a national zinazoongozwa lisiloelemea in politics and religion.
Even in England, Queen, who is the head of state (kiheshima more than performance) is also the head (kiheshima) of the Anglican Church, and though Christianity is as "national religious" but this country is run by the laws of the world "" and are not religious.
However, the problem of religion is that despite the fact that touch on feelings of private muumini, religious things hayahitaji a confirmation of (or scientific world).
Unlike religion, politics is the issue of ideologies more than faith (though faith in the ideologies can make the party followers kukiona important if religion).
Likewise, the issues of religious "yanahusisha future lives after the" though this world politics is focused on issues of now or in the world from here.
Pestilence coming when a believer in anapoanza religious anapopinga believing that union, for example, he is doing the work of spiritual lessons and inampendeza Muumba.
It is very difficult to control this kind of person because even his activities zikihatarisha ended up his life, or to die, he believes that will be paid by his Muumba.
Basically Zanzibar post yamechangiwa more and our politicians who a wanachelea what kinachofahamika as "fear a curse of the founders of the union when United ukiwavunjikia" in their hands.
Kuzishughulikia instead of finding solutions to the problems of the coalition and the permanent, our leaders have been wakijikita more to try to make us believe that wanalishughulikia that issue sincerely wanaligusa though only about.
We have been with the commission of the problems of the United go years and years, but its effectiveness kufikirika has more than the reality.
Lets stop unafiki "" noise, claiming the changes the structure of the union (and even to those uvunjiliwe far) can minutes elapsed for "kuzipuuza or having a commission of Forever" handling those problems without coming up with solutions.
But another one is kuwanyamazia mafashisti wanaohubiri hatred against their colleagues on the coalition nuisances.
In Zanzibar, some of the politicians wamediriki claimed is Wabara wanaosababisha Zanzibar people lack of employment.
But this is just a series of accusations of that kind, because in the past Wabara walishawahi waliopelekea AIDS accused that is in the country.
Because up to this time ninaandaa this article is still the state in nihitimishe haijatulia Islands, allow for giving the proposal of the importance of having the referendum vote itakayofidia mistake that was made in the past to seek the consent of the citizens about the union.
If the vote in the referendum itaamua we have three governments, that bus liheshimiwe.
As uvunjwe itaamuliwa United, then it should be so (of the way, the broken United crew hakutomaanisha in the Tanzanian mainland or Zanzibar, as the broken marriage hakumaanishi death by a husband or wife and aliyetalikiana colleague).
Very last nikiwasihi, when our leaders to quicken ninayoamini the referendum will help bring a lasting solution to the problems of our coalition, it is very important for the two governments (of the union and of Zanzibar) to take stern measures against the terrorists waliogeuza "legitimate claims about the union" that the reason attacking Wabara and burning churches and their property.
They do these criminals hakilengi searching for solutions but like the United species religious tensions between Christians and Muslims.
God bless Tanzania


