
JPM: I katili is not Asema wants to strengthen the country on the line Mussa Juma and Daniel Sabuni mjuma @ mwananchi.co.tz Arusha.
President John Magufuli has urged the Wa Tanzania wasimuone katili for expelling work some of the directors of the government, because he wants to construct the country on the line.
Speaking in mass on Sunday at the Catholic Church tokeo Parish, the Mister Burka in Arusha, President Magufuli said katili people are the ones who were wanawaibia Wa Tanzania and weak suck.
Doctor Magufuli said forced to take action of chasing the work, it does not mean that he is cruel, but the aim is to serve the Wa Tanzania and construct the country on the line.
Said Tanzania is rich nation, there is no reason for the citizens to complain every corner, because there is enough land, minerals of every kind, different kinds of animals that some have started to to be taken out.
"Ninapochukua a step I want to put Tanzania iliyonyooka, I already nimejitoa nimesema sacrifice in Tanzania, especially" weak, he said.
He added that hatawaangusha Wa Tanzania and hatabadilika, he will continue to stand up and defend the rights of Tanzania, poor atatembea and all the days and poor.
The welfare of the parties speaking about the political issues, said the election is over if there are people were Chadema, CCM, NRA or the CUF party one, the goal is to make sure that the partnership to bring development of Tanzania.
"Tupeleke the interest of the Tanzania ahead of our parties, because even if the parties visingekuwapo lingekuwapo" nation, he said.
Return to worldly his call of the Tanzania to continue to pray for him and the nation, because it needs to lead the nation poor hand of God.
The Priest of the church, Peter Pinto speaking on behalf of the Bishop of the Archdiocese of Arusha, Josephat Lebulu congratulated President Magufuli for the good work anayofanya in Tanzania.
Said Wa Tanzania who are largely been supporting especially in his slogan "" just work here, because even words of God yanasisitiza people to work hard.
The chairman of the parish, Philemon Mushi giving a vote of believers explained to support the efforts of President Magufuli utumbuaji especially in the boils.
He said even in the books of God walitoswa corrupt baha rini, therefore the work that he is doing President Magufuli is the work of God, to ensure anarejesha discipline and accountability for the benefit of all, Tanzania.
In the mass, President Magufuli being given a gift of the Bible, bed sheets and rozali, and gave a gift of 1 million shillings for the church choir and accepted that the mwanaparokia.
President Magufuli is here in the province on a work tour, and today is expected to launch the projects the buildings of the organizations the NSSF by the PPF.
Wakizungumzia the statements by President Magufuli that he is not katili, Doctor James Jesse school law lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam, said the problem is not seen katili or not, the major kinapaswa look like the decision even if it is correct is yamefuata foundations of the law.
Doctor Jesse said the act of public servants in public, suspension is equivalent to give offense because who should reach wataogopa decisions by the correct decisions for fear the pressure the president.
He said that it is good for the public servants who various wanatuhuma, to be followed the procedures of public service in the holding was removed and not publicly.
John Bayo who is coordinator of non-governmental organizations in Arusha (Angonet) said to the nation, where President Magufuli he doesn't violence on kuwasimamisha working public servants.
He said there is a clear mistake which yameligharimu the nation, which yamefanywa with workers to an extent that even kuwasimamisha only work publicly hakutoshi.
"For example, if the issue of sugar, people wanaficha sugar other people to stop wanafuja public assets must stern action can be taken," said.
Hassan Hashi Ahmed, businessman of Karatu, said President Magufuli, he is not any violence, citizens been supporting anatetea 100 percent, because the weak.
Ahmedi said Tanzania was has reached a place in trouble, so we must now stern action can be taken and anampongeza President for the good work.
Provincial Laizer, a resident of Arumeru, said President anafikia decision of expelling people to work due to mistakes, but anajikuta some wanamlaumu due to the lack of accountability in other levels of the government.
Laizer said President anapochukua stopping the action work is not as he is cruel, but there are many executives with the position of the decisions and to chase kuwajibisha have been unable to fulfill their work and their authority, or are responsible for embezzlement or they do not know their duties.
He said has come when President akibaini embezzlement, akimsimamisha executive work of the grassroots, then who are above him who were wanamlinda waondolewe them.


