Buriani Mohamed Kingolile "stone boxing" APR 09, 2015

When I was the spokesperson and finally, the secretary general of the club of Simba, there is no nililokuwanalo branch as the close of Association and Development.
There were two main reasons, was the first of its closeness and my office and the second issue that creativity with them.
Proximity ninaouzungumzia is the one that most of the time they were doing their activities in the area of the headquarters of the club Msimbazi in Dar es Salaam.
Was not easy to pass one day of work without meeting with at least one member of that branch.
Ninaouzungumzia creativity is the one of the branch to make such things calendar and the picture that later waliziuza and to receive funds to run their activities.
Is in those environments of work, that's when I met someone aliyeitwa Mohamed Kingolile known by the nickname "stone boxing" who passed away in the accident, then last week in Morogoro when he and his colleagues were a way to Shinyanga province watching the match between Simba and Kagera Sugar.
Six members were killed in the jail.
He is the former secretary of a branch and for more than one way; the leader of that branch.
Many leaders of Simba, and other clubs in the country, to the level of the branches have died and sikuwahi tanzia employee them.
Today, nimewiwa Boxing writing stone to honor because of all the people of his type waliotangulia in front of justice without identified nationally, although they were and a great contribution in the soccer game.
Kingolile and his colleagues in the group had arrived from them history and a half at 6 o'clock in the morning until two o'clock in the morning for the purpose of making soga of the soccer game.
This debates was important for people who hawakwenda watching the last match Simba or they have no understanding about the new news inayoihusu the club.
To the employees of the town which they are forced to arrive in before their office hazijafunguliwa, Msimbazi is "kijiwe" kupotezea before the time hawajaenda people in their activities.
Many people do not know the group but at the development and there is someone there is called Chinga due to that comes from the southern provinces of Tanzania but his colleagues wanamwita Shafih Dauda.
Was given the name because of his ability to explain the game.
That is, there are people to check him money so as to go to the match after the match, it should be tomorrow or any day, he can wasiokwenda to inform them about what happened.
If there is a new player kasajiliwa and Simba and has done exercise for just one day and Chinga akamuona muulize atakwamba and, just as a player is good or bad.
Boxing women stone without having financial ability, they were ready to travel to any cost to go anywhere where Simba inacheza.
Often arriving in the concerned region ileile day of matches and turning back to Dar es Salaam just after the match.
Stone boxing is among the people who were ready to do anything to help the Simba gets victory.
There are a lot of things kuitafutia victory which club was doing that special because sitayataja in this article.
Many times Kingolile was sits in the front seat on the second side of the driver as they travel time.
The aim was to return to be able to easily during wants to provide information while inside the vehicle but also being there before wanaoliona people, then they know stone boxing is.
Tanzania in football who are still haujafanyiwa major strategies to be announced, the buses fans part one of the aggressiveness zinazotangaza this game.
Even if someone was he does not plan to go to the more exciting stuff mpirani, what a road Kingolile which makes people change the ideas and come to the field.
All the days I believe that people like the ones doing Kingolile women football fans to continue to go to the field here in the country at the time in neighboring countries the number go down every day.
I have ever going to watch the Premier League match of the Ugandan Football two years ago at the Mandela in Kampala, and nilisikitika to see less than 400 people while wamekwenda watching the match.
Ukichunguza keenly, together with another reason zinazotajwa including the strength of the English Premier League, you will discover that one of the reasons is that country not to again by women Kingolile and branches of the clubs as Football Federation and Development, money, Wekundu Wa Terminal, Yanga pipeline and others.
People who are doing that this game uzidi Kingolile attractive, as women, the one Yamungu of Morogoro and others, should they recognized as part of the people that those who should be respected equally.
These are people who have been laid down their lives all because of this game.


