
The continent zinazowika to the fans and the sponsorship and Thomas Matiko Glo has been mentioned to be one of the premier league competition in the African continent with more according to the statistics of the International Federation of Football history and Statistics, has failed to completely local players and even the outside.
Even in Europe, wacheS zaji huvutiwa and the league like England and Spain which zimewekeza well, that are and money, the money through sponsorship hupatikana.
While the issue of African sponsorship appears to hold the speed and ready kumeanza OKA these days and has improved despite being the premier league of Nigeria was witnessed the league that many players of foreign zinawavutia join them so as to give the competition for those at home.
And this is the reason despite the sweetness of the league West African countries that are and many players wanaopepeta European soccer, lack of good sponsorship has many players good mialiko boycotting the outside the club player in those countries.
While them Wazelendo of those countries similarly wakiamua to escape at home in order to seek more rice elsewhere, including in the league of South Africa, Kenya and Tanzania.
1.
Premier League KUSINI consultants sponsorship Ksh17.5: Premier League billion of South Africa with mentioned that attractive in the African continent for the soccer players to be paid due to the huge sponsorship inayopata.
This is despite that is one of the young league African more ikiundwa 1996 after that nation kujinyakuliwa independence.
In 2007, ABSA bank in the country in the contract fat kuifadhili entered into the Premier League for the sponsorship of the PSL Sh4 billion for a period of five years.
Until today, there is no other league in the African Continent ever mktaba into a major funding that more than.
Along with that deal, PSL got into in another contract Sh17.5 and SuperSport billion which was all the resolution of flying its matches directly.
After the end of the agreement 2012, ABSA and PSL iliurefusha again for another term of five years and now would end 2017.
ABSA is mojawepo league which inalipa well players.
2.
Premier League Ghana sponsorship: Ksh 903 million in February 2014, Football Federation of Ghana liliafikiana contract of sponsorship of 10 American million dollars for a period of five years and the bank first Capital Plus.
For every year the bank will be releasing the amount of Sh181 itakayogawanywa million among the club to participate in that league.
First Capital Plus, which is the national bank entered into in the agreement and Ghana FA after kuipiku telecommunications company Vodafone was the England ikipendekeza sponsorship of 5 million dollars.
According to the Ghana two tuvuti sports Allsports and Black Sports scored several clubs that had started, threatening to withdraw from the league after the sponsor of the first mobile service company Globacom, failing to withdraw funds the 2013 / 14 season.
During the 2008 Globacom that is owned by the Nigerian billionaire, Mike Adenuga ratified and Ghana FA to give the sponsorship of 23 American million dollars (Ksh2.1 billion shillings) for a period of five years.
Is in a period of the sponsorship where the league ilifahamika as Glo Ghana Premier League.
However, the sponsorship of this league unakadiriwa that more than one billion because there are also another contract in the company of SuperSport udhamni and which has a permit to fly the tournament that league directly.
3.
Tanzania Premier League sponsorship: KSh 327 according to million news of the The Citizen newspaper tuvuti of the Tanzarehe 19, October 2014, the intention mainland has value Ksh 327 million). The board who currently manages a (TPLB) to announce his deputy executive that the Milk Silas uliongezeo TSh3.5 uliopita. season billion mobile Duma Vodamini offering heads sh116 nywa) every million between the teams yo indi company the televishi Azam Media Group nayomiliki Azam likewise, another is sponsoring the Tsh1.8 Ksh90.5 (billion) million for the purpose of flying the league matches.
The Tanzania has managed to attract more players of the nations in Uganda, Kenya, Brazil, Nigeria and even Liberia.
Due to the sponsorship, every share gets a club the Tanzanian shillings (Ksh 8 million 160) every million mwaka. oni udiwa of outside of pao.
The board a kamkubalmilioni every year, gets five years ago.
Recently kumezuka the conflict between Football Federation FKF and KPL after to know that the board ilirefusha contract of the sponsorship for another five years more without kufahamishwa.
In the new deal, SuperSport who with title deed of flying the match TPL agreed to increase their sponsorship to Sh100 more million.
Aside and SuperSport, EABL itengenezayo Tusker beer company, and it gives the contribution of the sponsorship of the league cup Sh56 million amount of every year.
In those funds, KPL huzigawanyia every 7 million club that is participating in the premier league and as a result of the new sponsorship may that amount kikafikia 10 million.
5.
Premier League Egypt Ksh100: Premier League million sponsorship of Egypt is the oldest league moepo more ika Continent ikiasisiwa 1948.
However, inayotajwa that the one with the league and interesting competition Ubwa Africa according to the da Ventures Africa, hamini got its first 2005 da agreeing he and telephone service company Vodafone ataba of two years.
A kilichotolewa money and Vodae hakijulikani.
After the completion of the mkatahuo and Vodafone from another 2005kampuni phone attained ALAT over from 07 until 2011 name from the period in which ilibadili Voone Egyptian Premier League that Etisalat premier League. da the conclusion of the contract hamini of this league is the one known television station Egyptian TV, with the title deed to fly its matches directly and as well as spreading to other stations.
Since 2012, Egyptian TV has been ikipampu a bundle of Sh100 every year million for the purpose of upeperushaji of those matches, especially those of the team, popularly known as Al Ahly, Zamalek and Ismaily.
For that reason, the sponsorship Vodafone ilirejea again and kuidhamini until early this year ilipoipisha Presentation Sports.
Football Federation of Egypt EFA has been very ikibana kimikataba explanations which has been ikiafikiana and these makupuni.
However, together with udwa, the league is more of a salary package ikijumulishwa kisichojulikana being administered and sponsors of the league for now Presentation Sports.
Although the league is between those with great attraction to players due to higher payments, the number of foreign wanasoka is very small because every inaruhusiwa that club and only three.


