
Great Makovu yaliachwa Kapedo but peace from yaimarika the Kapedo at Wajir Baringo and Turkana liligonga the news headlines in the year E liligonga the news headlines in the year 2014 after beating waliojihami attackers shot and killed 19 soldiers of the administration.
This government to start ililazimu shughili winning illegal weapons among the breeders in the area where more than 24 gun zilitwaliwa.
However, despite to enhance security in the area, the hosts still wanakadiria losses while claiming that security officials who were running a that activity waliharibu their property and kuwatesa host walioongea locals and the nation today in a tour of the area last week the walisimulia waliyoyapitia in the hands of the officers during the climax of the activities.
The officers also were seeking zilizotwaliwa gun from the officers killed.
Locals complained that many people who do not have the guilty waliteswa, their livestock killed by shot brutally murdered by being stabbed their shops and the officers.
"Ingewachukulia terrorists step government instead of kuadhibu people who do not have the guilty.
Many of us now we live in our headquarters yasiyofaa after being stabbed, Mister "said Natan Loyeleis, the host of Chesakam area.
Business people in the business center Chemolingot eneobunge Tiaty, in the districts are complaining of that their businesses hazijafufuliwa after the activities because their products and another ziliibiwa kuteketezwa and the officers.
Mister Paul Lotudo, one of the business people he says that more than Sh700,000 during the operation after his shop for a total kuunguzwa.
"Tunashangaa is how legitimate business zinavyohusiano like these and the theft of livestock.
That operation that was ikileng the economy of the community of Pok said.
Locals given that they said erudi in that area lak that peace of kudum as who lost their property that eresheni kufidiwa to them afresh.
Mister'ole Napang Lukwaso business in the livestock gulbei says that during the ope alip 2 million according to the mwakil Ribkwo / Kositei, Mister those officers risas voted nine ngamia 240 punda and more than 50 shops that time.
He mentioned the areas that were killed like Naudo Che, Riong'o, Chesitet, Akwachatis while madu ezwa ki centers Chemolingot and Nginyan "why iliu livestock our neighbors K decided to live but a lot oper iliathiri our economy is livestock, Mister" said the slogan President Uhuru Kenyatta Ali Kapedo after those flowers ordered hi operation "I'm here today to officers grandson who were K mtoe waliowaua the names of those officers.
The government is here and stern action itachukuliwa wanaovunja to law, said Mister Kenyatta "plead with the anger.
The report uharibibu of property, theft and kuteswa zilipojitokeza hosts for the first time, the former inspector general of police David Kimaiyo claimed that the animals were killed following the ufyatulianaji shot dead between security officials and the invaders waliojihami Pokot.
Soldiers in the operation were KDF wakingoza walikanusha also claims that their officers involved in that brutality despite the complaints.
In the report to the security agencies that time, KDF ilikanusha ikidai that his officers were already have left yaliyotajwa areas where the theft and mateso yaliripotiwa.
The hosts also complained that the officers waliacha vilipuzi in that area which they said that recently viliwaua three children who were wakichunga livestock.
19 were headed to the officers who were killed in the process of carrying a car which had limeteketezwa at an event earlier in the area near Kasarani Kapedo.
The state of security for now imeimarishwa in the area of many months Kapedo following the meeting of peace led by the leaders and the athletes from the Rift Valley area.
The investigation that was done by the nation today in that area ulibaini that the community of Waturkana and Wapokot zikizozana that were previously for now zinaishi for usalama. wkipsang @ ke.nationmedia.com


