
Usichokijua about Britain's exit the European Union the ministers of foreign affairs, from the founders of the EU, France, Germany, Belgium, Italy and Holland while at a joint session yesterday in Berlin to discuss the fate of the union after Britain's exit.
Picture by AFP.
This is the first time for member countries itself in the union since his kuasisiwa in London, England.
During the European nations on to think about the decision Britain voted to quit from the union, kumejitokeza several issues which zinazua controversy.
Inayojadiliwa big issue is about what is called critical questions which have begun to identify kumulikwa what can happen in the relationship between England and 27 nations yaliyosalia from the union.
For now the European Union it is in shock and in that area which is still unaingia hailijui.
Itself a member who has ever since the establishment of the union and article 50 of the contract of Europe provides few details.
The following are some of the information about the incident that is going to be discussed in the whole world.
What is the meaning of the "" Brexit are short words yanamaanisha the possibility of Britain's exit from the internal affairs of its 28 members in the European Union (EU).
This is the first time for the England run the vote in the referendum.
That word Brexit '' lilitumiwa as part of the following an example of the word "Grexit" lililotumiwa during Greek close was removed in the use of the Euro currency.
The question voters lilijitokeza "waliulizwa votes, to England to continue to remain as a member of the European Union or change in the union?
The question lilipendekezwa and the Electoral Commission of England and agreed by the government together with the Parliament of the country.
Why has taken place now: The action took place in order to complete the requirements of the Party of Conservative as ilivyoahidiwa and the British Prime Minister, David Cameron aliyeahidi to vote in the referendum as angechaguliwa again in the general election of 2015.
In general members of many Conservative who right now is the wamegawanyika about the membership of EU for approximately 40 years.
Waconservative the poor for a total prefer to leave EU during waliosalia others prefer remaining in the community.
The importance people waliopendekeza Britain's exit, they believe itaipa independence from British rule which hinders the success of employment and to allow the country to vote for his law and friends of business.
Activists supporting membership of England in the community as any other countries will help improve the country's influence in the world in matters of the army and the safety of the economy.
Voters waliostahili the citizens of England of more than 18 years waliopiga yes votes.
This involves a citizen who are England and in other nations of the Commonwealth.
Will take the time to leave EU Law 50 number indicates that any country member can to quit but for several conditions.
One of those conditions is that the process of leaving any is complete within two years since the first day starting the process.
In that period, England will continue agreed and the contract together with the laws of the EU, but haitashiriki in doing any decision.
Yatakayozingatiwa things before leaving will start to talk about the sections of his departure.
Major issues including the things like what regulations financial institutions that have zitakuwapo in the city of London, tax for business and the rights of groups of civilians in the countries in the European Union.
What effect zinazoonekana for Britain's exit EU?
Some believe his resignation kutahamasisha other nations to follow the system of the referendum to take place in their areas.


