
Tuesday, September 27, 2016

Jenga positive thoughts, Uwe and Joy

That and happiness is your decision himself.
Happiness is the results of ulivyoamua way to think.
Likewise, giving up and lack of peace is the result of a lot of time to think yanayokatisha things up and sometimes tusiyo and his answers.
Tunatafsiri badly tunayokutana things it and it is the reason tunapatwa and up.

That is saying, your thoughts have great strength.
Ukiweza change the mentality ulizonazo you cannot being disturbed and capable of anything happen in your life.
In this article, we are several things that can help you to have positive thoughts zitakazokufanya you have happiness.

Fill your knowledge and positive things

Wekeza at yanayokujenga things kiufahamu.
Instead of using a lot of time to read, to listen, to speak, to look at the news zinazosikitisha and affects the heart, badili practice unapoamka, shibisha from your knowledge and information zinazoinua the heart.

Usisubiri other people wakutie the heart.
Jiinue heart himself by reading positive things, to hear yanayojenga things, and reflected yanayokuinua things.
As unavyojenga this practice, your knowledge utajaa good news and will be the beginning of that and happy.

Jione as someone who

Perhaps environment umekulia in yaliyokuaminisha you cannot.
Maybe ulikejeliwa and kudhihakiwa that you are not unaloweza.
His results your mind imeamini you cannot and huachi kujifikiria as poor person and asiyejiweza anything.

There is no reason to continue kujifikiria so.
Hupati any benefits to see you cannot.
Begin see if someone of why, someone important, someone anayetegemewa and people.
Walk the chest before that you can.
Jisemee words of kukuinua that you can.
Badili voice that uliyozoea heard ikikunong'oneza that you cannot.
Ikatae.
Jisemee you can.
Your joy it will come back.

Expect good things

It is surprising that many times tunajikuta we expect that bad things yatatokea even in the environment that we do not have any evidence.
For example, you can that is organizing a big to report to your work, but unafikiria watakavyoipinga way that report.
Why usitarajie that a good thing will arise instead of think usichotaka kitokee?
Jenga positive expectations for what unayoyapanga.
Tegemea yatatokea good things.

Futa uliyokutana with bad history

Think that were ever bad kutukuta hutuumiza and kutukosesha peace.
If you have ever failing to something, for example, that does not mean it will continue to fail.
There is no reason to continue believing inferior thoughts that bad because yalishatokea then yaendelee must occur.

The truth is that lililowahi to you in the past haliwezi that the foundation of your identity.
It's time to cancel the history of yaliyokufundisha bad feel badly.
Itazame today instead of yesterday and tomorrow.
Ifurahie today utapate the strength it tomorrow.
Will be someone with joy.

Let kujilaumu for the mistakes of others

Why ujiandikie guilty for the crime of another?
As aliyekosea is your brother, your friend or employee, there is a reason mwenzako which kujibebesha blame you for crimes that are not directly?
Certainly, then you have the reason kujivisha embarrassing for usiyowajibika things it.
Kujitesa on issues that are not important to you, and private kujihesabia guilty is kuifukuza your joy himself.

That it does not mean happy then you have problems.
No.
Happy reason being kuyatazama yanayokukabili problems has been able to positive eye.
Badili your thoughts, look at his results.

You can monitor the line of psychology in the Tanzanian Newspaper every Thursday for this as debates.

It has been written by

Christian Bwaya


