CCM will be ikiendeleza history this nonsense Dec 30, 2015

Last week I have said that it's impossible to have a political party which kinataka the consent to lead them to be poor people who are then kinajiendesha as the party of the rich.
For a long time now CCM kikiendesha has its political issues such as she does not know the importance of those waliokipatia wanaoongozwa or consent to dominate.
A party that has decided to abandon the ideology of liberation and kujitumbukiza in the ideologies utajirisho cannot continue to do so for a few Forever because wanaoamua kiwepo or kisiwepo power that is with the final decision.
For several years kumekuwapo and tension within the ruling party about what especially what is needed to take place in every aspect it can be a politically, economically or socially.
Tension uliokuwapo and who will continue to be a state that is especially however tuliishuhudia campaigns in the general election ulioiingiza power, the government of the fifth phase of Doctor John Magufuli.
No doubt even a bit that members interim wanalitambua blood that and have already do an evaluation of the party that to know why his candidate was overwhelmingly and winning years ago suddenly found himself getting the victory of 58 percent, which is a sign of collapse by the popularity of the party.
There is no doubt that even a bit tactics aliyoitumia Doctor Magufuli during the campaign kujinadi without kuegemea his party was is good and developed professionally of politics.
I know there are some who will be hawafurahishwi so much and the fact that ilimbidi that candidate ajinadi "as he utabakia but the truth is that the truth and that made him the candidate akaibuka and victory.
After that win one issue is growing very clear and very important for the CCM and the thing is, after that is what happened?
So, the party has the tyranny of silent and pretending to be that hakijaona what happened?
So, if kimeona what happened now what ways are correct kukihakikishia continuing to stay in power if the ruling party in the coming elections?
An evaluation of the state it was and expectations of that party in the days to come is very important headlines linalotakiwa take place and peaceful without papara or mawenge.
It should be remembered that the CCM before the system of many political parties in the country had returned to become one dollar.
Why the party is dollars system of political party 'food is only one who is in politics, of the concerned countries.
The party is what kinachoisimamia the government to implement the policies associated with the ethics of the party.
The party 'food is and a saying in every last issue of the lives of political, economic and community activities in the country.
There is no is being done by the government which haijakiridhia party.
The system of the administration ulihakikisha that the party 'food is with great strength and ability to maybe even to the government in every sector and is the reason ziliundwa various provincial economy, defense, n.k. money
Sekretariati was the university units party that we can kuvilinganisha and what kinachojulikana as the majopo wabunguabongo (think tanks).
These are the team that have the capacity to experts who are the policies that enacting zinapelekwa by government officials kuzitafsiri.
The party to rule of the leadership of the government it means that there is no party which hakijapatiwa the blessings of capable of implemented in the country.
That the state it was before the political reforms of our country in ninety years and certainly was conclusion in the constitutional amendments of the United Republic of Tanzania that yalikubali restored to the political system of many parties here in the country.
It is clear that the CCM hakikuwa kimejiandaa entered into the political system of many parties and its consequence is that many things kujiendea yakaachwa only without a good procedure which ungelikihakikishia umadhubuti even in an environment of political competition.
The party ideology which had who currently manages the welfare of the weak, the farmers and the workers kikaachiwa kutumbikia agents in the hands of the colonial ubepari and mamboleo.
Is in the international ubepari environment that was umechachamaa all over the world and there was pressure to ensure every type of political parties of the left wing ideology like that was the Revolutionary Party vinatii and their vivuli race.
CCM ikajikuta having a stop stuttering in a very basic meaning ideologies.


