Presidential seekers wabagua sponsors Mwanza Jun 24, 2015

In a state that haikutarajiwa, members of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) wanaosaka presidency have shown great discrimination in searching for sponsors in the party in Mwanza province.
Thorough investigation conducted by Good Citizen this week has revealed that many candidates have continued kumiminika almost every day in two districts that seven out of the province to search for sponsors in the party.
The district which many members of CCM, have been wakipishana almost every day to look for sponsors in the process of seeking nomination by that party to vie for the presidency, which is Nyamagana and Ilemela city of Mwanza.
Until the day before yesterday on Monday, the districts of Nyamagana and Ilemela zimefikiwa and were more than 10 candidates, while five other losers, some other hazijafikiwa completely and having zimefikiwa or and presidential seeker one, or three under.
Five other district which kubaguliwa seem to be in the process of searching for the country's leadership is Kwimba, Misungwi, Magu occasion, and Sengerema.
The secretary of CCM, Tabu Kwimba Lugwesa, has told this newspaper that until the day before yesterday on Monday there was no presidential seeker who arrived in the district to look for sponsors.
"Until now, there is no even one presidential candidate) who came to look for sponsors here Kwimba, I don't know why, maybe it is because our district is a side," said Lugwesa.
Likewise, there is no muwania presidency through the CCM, who arrived in the district, which is the occasion island in Lake Victoria to look for sponsors in the party.
The chairman of CCM, Ali Mambile occasion, told the Good Citizen that may jiografia of that district is the presidential seekers has caused kuikwepa in the process of searching for sponsors.
"While (Ukerewe Town) hajafika even one presidential candidate, hatujawaona us, but I think even jiografia tulivyokaa is the problem, I don't think there is the candidate with bad intentions and we," said Mambile.
On his side, the secretary of CCM, Magu Bangija Pangobu, said that until the day before yesterday, the only presidential candidate who has achieved this in that district is the Minister of Works and the member of parliament for Chato Geita province, Doctor.
John Magufuli who got 38 sponsors.
However, Pangobu has kutoshangazwa and the situation due to the alichokieleza that is in the process of looking for sponsors haumbani kumchagulia nor the presidential seeker district to go.
"There is no transparency where especially the candidates should go to look for sponsors, up to now as Magu has come Doctor.
Magufuli alone, came 10th June this year akapata sponsors 38, but may will come other sponsors, "said Pangobu.
Also in the district of Misungwi, CCM candidate aliyekwenda to look for sponsors are the former Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo who got only 45 sponsors.
The secretary of CCM Misungwi district, Donald Magessa, has confirmed that while saying ") who came to look for sponsors until now (the day before yesterday on Monday) is the only Muhongo, I was very careful, does not want" vigor.
At least in Sengerema District that until recently was imeambulia three presidential seekers who went to look for sponsors inside CCM.
According to the secretary of CCM Sengerema District, Mohamed Shabani Mohamed, party cadres who arrived in the district to look for sponsors are Doctor.
John Magufuli, Ambassador Ali Karume and William Ngeleja, who is the member of parliament for the area.
During those district, especially occasion, Misungwi, Kwimba and Magu zikikabiliwa and "discrimination that", the districts of Nyamagana and Ilemela led have continued to be attained by many members of CCM wanaosaka the presidency.
The secretary of the parents association of CCM Ilemela, Faisali Dauda Hamadi, has said that up to nine cadres Monday were they have arrived in the district to look for sponsors.
Hamadi mentioned those cadres of CCM that is Professor Mark Mwandosya, Makongoro Nyerere, Judge Augustino Ramadhani, January Makamba, Edward Lowassa, William Ngeleja, Stephen Wasira, Luhaga Mpina and the farmer from Kigoma province, Elidephonce Bihole.
However, Nyamagana District until now is leading in Mwanza region to be attained by members of the CCM wanaosaka many presidency.
The secretary of CCM in that district, Elias Mpanda, has told this newspaper that more than 10 members of the party wameshafika in his office to look for the members of the kuwadhamini in those races.
According to presidential seekers Mpanda, who arrived in the district that includes Frederick Sumaye, Doctor.
Asha-Rose Migiro, Lazaro Nyalandu, William Ngeleje, Edward Lowassa, January Makamba and Bernard Membe.
Some of the members arrived in the district to look for sponsors and others with silent zilizotawaliwa celebrations and various vigor.
Look for sponsors who he is together with Judge Augustino Ramadhani, Professor Mark Mwandosya, Lazaro Nyalandu, Stephen Wasira, Makongoro Nyerere, Luhaga Mpina and Elidophonce Bihole.


