
Generous emulate, tumeiga what Brazil?
Jul 09, 2014

Reaches World Cup competition will end on July 13th Brazil.
Historically is the competition that has a lot of celebrations and msisimko of here and there.

Every time inapofanyika after four years of soccer lovers in the whole world all the time their eyes and ears have been yakifuatilia great competition soccer yanapofanyika somewhere in the world.

This year's competition has been faced with the challenge of here and there.
A lot been witnessed and even those which hayakutarajiwa.
For example we have witnessed the players with great reputation unable to do many that walitarajia, while who do not have the names wakiibuka and do great things as opposed to the expectations.

For the team, we have witnessed only African comedian, meaning the conflict and clashes with other players of the team wakifukuzwa the camp even before their teams provided in the tournament.

But also a team of Algeria have been able to put history by being the first team from Africa to get a large number of goals when ilipoweza scoring Korea for a total of 4-2 in the group stages.

When all those yakitokea there are some of the coaches level walioamua to release due to their team did badly.

These may walijua that after presenting their report any no litakoloendelea more than their leaves vibarua kuota after getting the results contrary to their promise.

In the quarter finals stage towards the semi-final, there are several occasions yamejitokeza as well as to suffer for the striker of Brazil, Neymar, who certainly aliwatia wazimu soccer fans, Brazil, given how walivyomtegemea.

The defender of Colombia Juan Zuniga, aliyemuumiza Neymar akajitokeza in the media asking for forgiveness for what happened while insisting that was not his intention kumuumiza the player, but it was in the process of kulitetea his nation, considering that the World Cup tournament very big in the world.

Perhaps kilichomshawishi Zuniga, doing so is after seeing the issue of Neymar, has become a talk in every corner of the estates of Brazil.

However, analysts of wanakiona football issues that act, saying they are the ones that the few players who can do so.

This is some of the few incidences between those that took place in the competition, there is a need for us Tanzanians asking what we have learned in the tournament.

Normally Wa Tanzania we have to make it easier for different things and especially those of from outside the country.
This behavior especially is based in different groups including our artists who every day they are of the Western fashion to which even sometimes haiendani and our culture but kuwageuza watumwa without kujijua.

Our players of soccer in the country and other stakeholders of soccer, after checking this competition must know that there is a learn anything.

In our coaches who have been ving'ang'anizi must to recognize that the resignation is common in soccer and especially when your team inaposhindwa achieve their goals.

But also the discipline issue for players is a very important thing, because even those players of Ghana waliorejeshwa home before their team provided in the tournament have shown acts of misconduct which havitakiwi be followed.

Cameroon them walitiwa in various hujuma FC strike that they held on a pretext of getting into the tournament without being paid their money.

This and it is a shame for the other team in Africa, as is still a player can to strike to show his level in the big competitions like claiming that hajalipwa is not something to be followed but the absurd.

After this tournament there is need stakeholders, the leaders of soccer and even our players, the first to be proud to witness this tournament but also learn something that can help to lift our football because of the challenges tulizozishuhudia in the competition.

I don't know if there is someone will be able to act to be proud of the kumg'ata Lius Suarez, his fellow player but ataiga the behavior of some of the players like Lionel Messi, who they have decided to show wakilitumikia clean football, while their nation as required.

Moreover, I have no confidence if there is our players in the country watakaoiga the behavior of kuchapana Makonde as walivyofanya Cameroon after being defeated.

World Cup competition to be the catalyst for the development of soccer in our country.
Tusiwe the ease of copying mikogo kunyoa viduku and the players.


