
FIFA yakatalia appeal than Barcelona and the author obligations of the International Soccer Federation (FIFA) liliitupilia besides the appeal and FC Barcelona kuizuia registering about violating the rules of registration.
The club from Spain now imefungiwa for 14 months up after making a mistake in forward to register under the age of 18, which is contrary to the regulations of the federation of soccer.
For these decisions, this team haikubaliwa registering new player until January 2016, even after the appeal at the court of Upatanishi michezoni (CAS).
The rocks of soccer succeeded registering the striker Luis Suarez, Ivan Rakitic, Marc-Andre ter Stegen, Thomas Vermaelen, Claudio Bravo, Jeremy Mathieu and Alen Halilovic.
UTETESI in defending himself to them, the official report of the club has said that a mistake which occurred faced were implemented and administration of the Barcelona club or not officials of that team.
Barcelona explained disappointment about the decision uliochukuliwa and CAS that report stated LORTIONS niatisl estrud molut utet wisi. wLor auguero dolor Adio odionsectem init vendre consequ smoloborem inci YAZIMWA Morocco in other events, Morocco refused to prepare the AFCON finals that were planned to take place this month due to the fear of the presence of Ebola disease.
At the meeting on November 11, 2014 in Cairo, the executive committee of the CAF decided to take the decision about the statement by the minister of youth and sports in his letter of Morocco following the November 8, 2014 waliyoomba postponed for AFCON 2015.
The requests yalithibitisha that Morocco was not ready to prepare the competition on the date that was scheduled (January 17 to February 8, 2015).
After a meeting that took place on November 3, the executive committee of the CAF iliipiga banned the nation and decided to relocate those matches hgadi Equatorial Guinea. the history of that club shows well how the club has been ikifuata following the FIFA rules and regulations for the purpose of strengthening the game in general.
Appropriate plan of FC Barcelona has enabled many youths to benefit from the world soccer.


