
The first woman to lead the market in Dar es Salaam.
I "themselves or to discover if I can lead people, but after getting najiamini training for now and I know my rights," says Neema Mayenga, the chairman of Kiwalani market here in the city.
Neema (40) a mother of five children says education that he achieved through the teachings of legal aid to traders in the market from the Organization of Equality for Growth (EFG) mtazao him to change his business.
"These achievements yamesaidia also other women wajitambue and know their rights and therefore making correct decisions without fear," says.
Neema, small wedded vegetables and fruits in the market Kigiligili Kiwalani says apart from to improve his life, the training yaliwafundisha how to help others.
Explains that the training given by EFG and Allied project sponsored by the legal registrars and local government in protecting the rights of women in the existing marketing Ilala district (LSF), yalimfanya to know how he can achieve his goals.
However, the research conducted by the project of LSF tests showed that Neema is the first woman elected to be the chairman of, because many markets in the country have been chairmen and not men and women.
Says education that he achieved in the training has been able kumvusha in terms of education as it currently has been a and discipline of money.
"We educational under, we cannot be and discipline in the use of funds, therefore, this training yamenisaidia" so much, he adds.
His life: He says for now has been able to buy the building plot since before the training was no sure if one day can buy a farm worth 1.5 million shillings in Chanika Managua.
Apart from anayofanya ameanzisha agricultural business, also the ginger into powder form after getting the capital due to his business of selling vegetables.
I started "do agribusiness ginger into powder form in Ruvuma province after receiving training on how best to do this, their nilitunza nilipofikisha money amount of 2 million nilime nikaamua this farming because it uses ginger into powder form six months kuvumwa and I have a plan to do agribusiness vegetables inside this month," says his position of leadership while chairman while the chairman of Kiwalani market who he was chosen for many votes June 31, last year, he says one of his responsibilities is to ensure the gender oppression in that market ceases.
Neema who is the only chairman of the market for the whole Tanzania Women explains that the market has a good toilet services and bafu and that waste hukusanywa every day and a car for carrying those waste which hufika in time and eliminate and thus making the market to be clean at all times.
However, tax unaokusanywa market is Kiwalani Sh300,000 for a month and that amount is little due to the business that bad and some of the market wafanyabaishara they've fasted their businesses because of the business that bad.
Gender violence masokoni there?
Said, for now, the gender violence has reduced due to everyone to recognize her rights.
"Before being given training, some of the business people men in this market were hawathamini women in the leadership but after getting" wamebadilika education, he says.


