
During Wema adai gotten, Diamond aibuka by husband and wife never even seated Aoe

And Shakoor Jongo from heart?
During Bimkubwa Wema Isaac Sepetu akijiaminisha and feeling that he has got a husband who is a good dad, given his friend Nasibu Abdul "Diamond Platnumz" has opened up that never hafikirii marry, own Friday the kukuhabarisha.

Diamond's statement comes several weeks after Wema seen and wedding ring on admitting kidoleni then presented with and "" insane that Bongo Flava alikotwaa who has returned from the United States, the award for the best artist in East Africa increase party was the name of the African Muzik Magazine (AFRIMMA) 2014.

Fear of married said. speaking to this newspaper in an exclusive interview, Diamond said he fears to marry said that on the claims that doing so can musical kimtokee falling something that does not want in life.

Yet!
Relatives, who nowadays calls himself Dangote (the name of Nigeria, rich Aliko Dangote) alitiririka that was and the idea of married but looking at his fellow musicians waliooa at the end of the day, their skills reduces and others very high in the music.

"You know you can see like nazungumza made fun thing, but that is the truth itself.
"There are many musicians who were at the peak (top) but only walipooa" "kick dropped suddenly in their music and others wamepotea completely.

"If you follow keenly, there are many stars in the world which is very umekwenda but hawajaoa.
Even here at home there are living examples.
I think their fear is to see that the sun did that music, "said Diamond.

It is true ring kamvisha Wema?
When he was asked if it is true amemvisha an engagement ring to Wema, the artist was not ready to clarify on grounds that beauty is ring as another beauty for a woman.

Outside the box standings after hearing the Diamond, this newspaper lilijiongeza and from outside the box where lilizungumza and some of the artists waliooa and wasiooa where's heavy things.

Yafichuka secrets in their talks on condition of kutochorwa gazetini, those artists claimed that Diamond said he fears losing many kick for the ladies who is his fans that believe they can get the zali to get married and that is why humzingira and asked the number of every phone anakokwenda.
A series of mademu

It was explained that because the relatives hupenda that about that is why alisharipotiwa from and a series of stars women who contributes to the name to continue being high.
It was claimed that when he is looking for the way music kuchomoka allegedly fall in love with the ladies who were and small names like Rehema Fabian who acquired competition through the Miss Swahili.

Ilisemekana that after that allegedly having a series of women stars like actors Jacqueline Wolper Massawe and Aunt Ezekiel Grayson and Jokate Mwegelo.
Later the family to travel from allegedly girls who had the kick so aliwamwaga inside for a short period of time as Najma and Natasha.

Later Diamond landed in Wema until akafikia the give an engagement ring to the year 2012 inside the New Hall, the current life Masaki in Dar.

Records show that shortly after Wema give an engagement ring walimwagana where Diamond landed in the presenter of Radio E-FM, Penniel Mungilwa "" Penny.

Diamond and Penny hakudumu on claims that the beauty and didn't kick as it was with Wema whose name has never drop since alipovaa Krauni of Miss Tanzania 2006 / 07.
Ilisemekana that even when drop award akampiga Penny under and to return to the Wema who is reportedly anayemng'arisha.

These wameoa, so, wameshuka?
Some of the stars waliooa include Mohamed Ahmed "Z-Anto," Nurdin Bilal "Shetta," Mwinyimkuu Amini, Lawrence Marima "Marlaw," peace Temba "Honorable Temba" and others.


