
20 December 2012

National Mwongazo utaboresha entrepreneurship training-NEEC

And Grace Ndossa

Executive secretary general of the National Council of empowering the citizens economically (NEEC) Dkt.Anacleti Kashuliza has said that after the guidelines of the National entrepreneurship training to be approved no college kitakachoruhusiwa offering entrepreneurship training without following mwongo.
Dkt.Kashuliza made the statement Dar es Salaam yesterday during a one-day workshop to get opinions from the stakeholders about the direction of the nation of entrepreneurship training.

"Standards we want vinavyofanana providing skilled graduate because many are wakihitimu entrepreneurship training, they could not be doing their activities well," said Dkt.Kashuliza.

He said that the guidelines will enable the country can produce watahimili entrepreneurs because the competitive market and others to produce products that can be taken to other countries.

Insisted that after the guidelines passed those who do not have the ability to follow them another activity of doing.

He urged the stakeholders to start to prepare for the purpose of using the guide itakayoondoa step the current state of the people to give entrepreneurship training but hayafanani and others poor is.

Previously the director general of the Institute of Education Tanzania Dkt.Paul Mushi launching the guidelines on behalf of the minister of education and vocational training, Doctor.
Shukuru Kawambwa said that the guide will help to ensure that the implementation of entrepreneurship education has considered important areas for the nation and all education providers so as to enable the Tanzanians saving themselves academically and economically.

He said that the guidance has been prepared to give direction in technique and the results of learning methods of testing, utahini and qualifications required facilitator, because those standards vitasaidia leading the training and testing the results of learning effectively.

Also said the guide has revealed and separate the formal education system and that are not officially in providing training on entrepreneurship education, the aim is to enable the beneficiaries are able to use the context and build skills and direction in accordance with the environment of providing education.


