

And Hamisa Maganga, the former Nairobi has contributed to the growth of technology to improve the lives of each person and various nations in the world.
But sometimes can kukaharibu of business people who still live ki-analogia inhibit something that contributes to the development.
International company teksi cars (Uber), have recently found itself ikijizolea great popularity in Africa after causing a conflict between them and the drivers teksi in Nairobi, Kenya.
I was in the country for an official tour iliyodhaminiwa and Fastjet, nilijikuta nikihamasika doing an interview with two rivals - the drivers of the normal teksi and those wanaotumiwa and Uber.
In that interview nilibaini many things but it is the biggest Uber wanavyokwepa paying tax in that country.
Another wanavyowanyanyapaa teksi drivers is how the usual claiming that is wachafu and their vehicles is kuukuu.

The opposition against Uber and the usual Kenya teksi Uber Company has continued strengthened due to attract customers in what wanachodai that wanatoza cheap fares.
The issue limewafanya teksi drivers of the usual in the town of Kenya, Nairobi, complaining and protesting Uber strongly into the market.
The danger of running those vehicles great has been to the police and the Ministry of Transport in that country ililazimika to intervene in the ongoing conflict between the drivers of teksi Uber and the usual.
Those while on, Uber continues opening branches in Mombasa Town.

Argument of the drivers of the normal teksi Dereva teksi, Leonard Kurya, says they cannot say that Uber is bad because they cannot compete with digital change.
He says that business is good because the employed is that, by Kenyans as there was a young man who did not have the task of doing, Uber imempati opportunities.
"You know the changes in the country is good, Uber vehicles yanazingatia the safety of the client and the driver also.
"If people feel Uber wanawawekea hindrances, she is not badly wakabuni other ways to attract customers, they started their website that will help them get easily customers, but if we will continue beating the then we know openly that tunazidi to announce to the business without us knowing," says Kurya.
He says that Uber has come with great strength because their business has many days apart from their vehicles and imejulikana quickly than other companies that are in that country.
Kenya says there are many companies that are doing the work but hazijajizolea popularity as it is for Uber.
Notes that due to the current competitive business in that country, now Kenya there is no drivers who are not trustworthy, because from who anawaharibia humchukulia business stern action.
Speaking about anachopata income per day through the work says is good though not so much.
This "business is good and different inalipa maintaining Kijiweni without work.
I can for a week I got shocked as KSh 12,000 shillings (equivalent to 240,000 of Tanzania), "says.
And Joseph Wamarwa, says Uber work without a special center, something which linaikosesha hawatozwi that tax revenue for the country.
He says that business has also classes in that country for that inabagua rich and the poor.
These "Uber is confident except wanachokosea is kutubagua, the elderly who want to do this work are failing because they could not use smartphones (modern phones).
"But also wanabagua vehicles, meaning a car like this (is showing his car) haliwezi to work with Uber because his number is A," says Wamarwa.
He insists that the old vehicles hayatakiwi and that they want new vehicles with the number C and D. vehicles with dummy number KCW, yes yanayohitajika and with KAV hayatakiwi to work with Uber.
He says 50 percent of the owners of vehicles especially drivers teksi wamekopa their vehicles, something that linawawia difficult for others to borrow because the criteria and the conditions the functions required is hard.
On his side, Morrison kamau, says that they are the work in justice because pay tax unlike Uber who hawaingizi something in government.
He says the government is supposed to come up with a special strategies to ensure that these two business improves.
"If the government wants to peace is supposed to sit and we all of us to tuzungumze one language, otherwise it things yaharibike poverty and crime hautaisha.
"Tunalipa us our colleagues, paying taxes, working without any restrictions so wanatuharibia business," says Kamau.
"Says;" walipokuja for the first time tuliwashtua a bit, they cannot doing business easily as wanavyotarajia tuwashtue, to know that this wasihofu wametuudhi, but only utaisha hostility.
He insists that other companies that conduct the work as Uber Mundo, including Easy tax zenyewe have sticker for different councils in their vehicles and it is for Uber.
Speaking about the issue of relief says that Uber have no relief to be wanatoza a distance while looking at used by kilometers, and that if there are traffic congestion is a must ipande cost.
Says wanakubaliana and a customer before begin their journey, so if it is far, almost road congestion, losses or has usually is.
"There isn't any easier, again you can discovered that they are about our more.
I ninapopata a customer must nitatafuta through a short cuts so niwahi nitafute back to another customer, but he can kukupeleka procedures again through the project so far only umlipe a lot of money, that is our differences, "says Kamau.


