Zimetusahaulisha political danger of El Nino Sep 30, 2015

How Wa Tanzania tunavyochukulia easily rain warnings El Nino - which more aircraft, they are expected to start next month can in explaining why our ability to deal with the disaster is limited.
That is obvious is that hatujiandai before hayajatukuta disasters but tunakurupuka during the enemy is mlangoni.
I have been nikifuatilia broadcast television and radio stations of Kenya and discovered that our colleagues have already started to take different steps of fighting or at least is expected to reduce the effects arise from the disaster of the rains zinazotegemewa rains in the area of East African countries from the third until the second week of the month of October.
First, ready El Nino imekwishakuwa the biggest agenda in Kenya inayojadiliwa in the news media in the university and media every day, while the government giving a statement of what is doing and what the citizens are expected to do.
According to one source, the government of Kenya ishapanga budget of 15 billion shillings of dealing with the disaster of El Nino, the government giving five billion shillings while stakeholders including the World Bank and the European Union wakiahidi providing the remaining 10 billion.
Some of the provinces have begun conducting meetings with the citizens in their areas to teach how to deal with the El Nino while the National Activities (NDOC) kikijipanga providing professional instructions, education and coordination for the central government and the regions before the rains, during the rains and after.
But the most important thing is that already various authorities of the government of Kenya in the cities, especially Nairobi have started kuzibua mitaro to allow yapite water easily.
The government also has been able to encourage citizens to make that activity in their streets.
To the advice of experts, have been taken action placing stones, kokoto or building floors difficult to prevent erosion some of the areas of mteremko.
The government of zimeshajipanga states to relocate people in the areas that are expected to affected valleys due to the rains.
Special areas of people affected by teacher yanaandaliwa already.
Education provided to people that wasilazimishe passing areas with better since the floods, but the delay ufike safe at home.
In the plans to deal with the El Nino, wamewaandaa Kenyans 70,000 young army of their savings (an example of JKT) to deal with any emergency banks for the infrastructure, while several other measures zikichukuliwa preparing to deal with a disease.
Kenyans started to think how to deal with the effects of El Nino in various sectors of the economy, including food and tourism.
It is expected that the rains can destroyed crops on the farms but and kukimbiza tourists who washaonywa that waepuke come to these areas in that period.
Also Kenyans have started to think how they can change the pestilence that grace for water harvesting, which otherwise free yatapotea sea.
Advice has been given that the government of different cities zifikirie digging ponds to the water.
It is possible that yasifanyike, but at least wanazungumza people.
We do?
Maybe if the press ninavyovitembelea to look for information is not correct, personally I have never to hear the debates El ninona how but people kubiliana and its effects.
And even if the debates is, then it is in a little.
For now, our mind all the things that are in the elections, as we will only tutachagua tukisahau that alive.
Ukifa, it does not matter who again anatawala, Magufuli or Lowassa, CCM or Ukawa.
Kenya where the debates to deal with the El Nino are many and has been given a big weight in the press is not that they have no political issues yanayotawala and shook the country.
For now, Kenya is facing of the teachers' strike of the whole country that claims more waongezewe salaries, while the government ikiwaambia that does not have money to pay.
Several Masiku, if not a week students are at home.
If it is not enough, opponents of the government of Kenya President Uhuru Kenyatta led by Raila Odinga, have started paying the issue of a political strike, while wakililitumia claimed to start the steps to remove the president in power.
But together with all that, the Kenyans they know that their life and the development of the country is important and therefore hawajasahau that they have the responsibility of protecting the life, that there is no human being who without another mfu can do more than buried and kusahauliwa.
During the truth'amua wameung Kenyans, Tanzanians tumejiziuka and political tunawaza only.


