
The machine receipt TRA ZAFUNGA Dar es Salaam shops

July 31, 2013, some of the business people with existing shops Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam, yesterday walifunga their shops, opposing the use of electronic machines used providing sales receipts as walivyotakiwa and Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).
From the shops were in the morning and to hold demonstrations in the estates claimed the machines is a burden for business people with the aim of dollar that will suppress.
Speaking with the time, Mister, businessman.
Samson Ngowi, who anamiliki clothes shop in Aggrey Estate, said their decision to stop their business is to TRA itakaposikiliza their cry for not using those machines.
"Due to the current round in business, the machines is a burden for business people, a big part of the profits, is used to pay taxes so delay our goals.
Tuliwahi "talks and TRA have until November 15 this year, these tusiendelee using machines now the act of silent is a sign that there is no is going on that is why we have decided to close" shops, he said.
Insisted that it is important to the government ikatambua real environment that businessmen who wanaumia and the influx of taxes collected and causing fail to continue.
Another businessman, Mister.
Juma Tinyango anayemiliki three shops in the existing Kongo- Aggrey, Mwananyamala, said those machines hazizingatii the procedure of business bridges between the great businessman, and under.
He said the cost of the machines is big without considering the businessman income so if the government has the intention to reach an agreement, should give those machines for free for businessmen.
"There are small businesses ('Machinga') who wamezagaa various streets of Kariakoo contrary to the law, the guards who have been given the work they transfer bribes and leaving so our business hazitoki because they are selling their products outside of our shops, Mister" said.
Tinyango.
He said the government has failed to remove those 'Machinga' who their businesses wanazipanga outside their shops and paying taxes, something that contributes to the wapinge the use of the machines.
And Mister.
Winston Hemba, said the time has come for the government to speed up the discussions between them and TRA together and get jawabu of ensuring 'Machinga', wanaondolewa quickly.
Some of the business people in that area, seemed not knowing anything after getting to their areas of business and found many shops have been closed and they are forced to strike into wakihofia undergo seem to file violence as traitors.
Kariakoo different people who look for different needs and found many shops have been closed, waliiomba the government through the TRA, to see the importance of doing a joint session with business people to settle the existing differences.
Mister.
Lucas Matata, a resident of Kibaha Pwani province, said the closure of some shops, especially those of drugs is a violation of human rights.
On his side, the acting director of service and education to the taxpayer of TRA, Diana Masalla, said they have been with the talks between them and the leaders of the government so any time they will give a statement about the decision of the government.
The police force in the squad (FFU), kiliimarisha defense in many streets of Kariakoo with bomb firearms together with the tears to strengthen security.
The police commander of Kipolisi Ilala when searched for the morning to talk about from the issue of security in the estates of Kariakoo, his phone was ikipokewa and his assistant commander claimed speaking to another phone.
October this year, the business people in Mbeya them did the demonstrations kuzigomea those machines where the situation prompted the great violence.
The police force in the region, bomb lililazimika to the tears so as to prevent the traders wasifanye a meeting aimed at opposing the use of the machines.
If those also violence has occurred recently in Songea wamezipinga traders Ruvuma province where those machines and claimed zinawasumbua and sold at a higher price.
The traders said not ready to use the machines are aiming at, because the dollar that will suppress kuwakomesha without fundamental reasons and to promote the old system


