
Premier League referees tarnishing them

It has been written by an editor

Imechapishwa: 12th November 2016

In the first round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League season of the year 2016 / 17 is complete on Thursday after Yanga completing his second leg against Ruvu Shooting coastal region.

The game held the Uhuru Stadium Dar es Salaam, previously was to be held on Wednesday together with other matches including that of Simba and Prisons, but ulisogezwa ahead after JKT pray.
The team of the Armed forces requested Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) through the league board likiitaka wasogezewe ahead by one day their game after getting tired of the long journey from Bukoba, Kagera match where they were and at the end of last week.
Together with the results of their game against Yanga who was scored 2-1, is the end of the first round of that league that involves a total of 16 teams.
That league was finalized we will we got the representatives of the Tanzanian mainland in the international competition of the Champions League as well as that of the Federation of Africa.
The first round limemalizika and had a lot of challenges and even worse, which is supposed to otherwise we will dominate soccer club in the national team and even our nation.
All the days when you have the national league weaker, without doubt, you will get the national team inadequate because his players emerge from the club, which are participating in the league of bad without competition.
On the side of the club, then it is because the same zitapata team championship without using the brain, power or their efforts, thus specialist will be found who is incapable of, who participating in international competitions akitolewa will be very early.
The first round of the Tanzanian mainland premier league we have witnessed a great tension on the side of the referees, who some of them have been unable to completely 17 soccer regulations for kuvurunda.
It is possible other referees walivurunda unfortunately and others did so deliberately after kusukumwa and pressure from a certain part or others they did not doing so but because of the 11th well those laws, that is why found came under fire again.
To know the law is one issue and kuzitekeleza is another issue, so that it can be for our referees, who have been unable to do well.
On the side of the TFF themselves need to be very careful because we have seen a mistake of referees yamewahi causing incidents of breach of peace as at the National Stadium, where the fans of Simba walivunja chairs.
The referees being unable to follow the procedures or the rules of not just soccer lovers can cause and various wisdom and destroyed the infrastructure, and that they can also kuwadhuru those referees.
It is the expectations of the soccer stakeholders that TFF in the second round of the Tanzanian mainland premier league, will take a big step to ensure the referees wanaopangwa wanachezesha fair soccer without any privileged.


