
Jembe Tido Mhando ATUA Azam TV

Azam Media Limited, the company has today announced that Tido Mhando has been appointed as the acting-executive Director, Life Ltd. (Production (UPL).

Tido, is collaborating with Rhys Mkuregenzi Torrington, who is the chief executive officer of Azam Media Ltd and the famous presenter of former football in the country, Mhando ataanza its responsibilities immediately, as his responsibility is making a big and the improvement of the television programs in Tanzanian and redioni.

Mhando with more than 40 years of experience in the journalism profession and the writing of news, is a person who is known by the industry respectable in the East African region and the whole Ulimwenguni.

Started work as a DJ Radio Tanzania and during the year 1985 joined BBC Swahili idha Nairobi as a journalist.
His growth within the ulimpelekea organization to be in London in the year 1991 where he was selected to be the first African to lead the department of Swahili Idhaa BBC.

After his return to Tanzania, Mhando has held various positions including the director general of the top TBC and recently, the executive director of Citizen Communication Ltd. (

Speaking about his appointment, Mhando said; "a great pleasure of joining Azam Media, also with big challenges that are ahead of us to make that the only company Televisioni and high quality Radio in entertaining here in the country (Tanzania) and also the African region,".

Mhando his office will be present in the modern building of Life Production Tabata, Dar es Salaam.
UPL is known for its quality in his broadcasting directly like, Vodacom Premier League together with other programs, popularly known as Kwetu House and Morning Trumpet.

Also in the coming week UPL itazindua its studio new international standards which zitamuwezesha Mhando have different designing programs with international standards in collaboration with local manufacturers.

Speaking about the appointment, Englishman Torrington said ": We have a great relief for Tido join us during tunakaribia to fulfill our year was the first since we started providing services, inanipa happy that Azam TV has been fast and distributors that heads and better service providers satellite Pay" Tv Tanzania,.

"For his experience nategemea Tido atachukuwa the responsibility of kutupeleka in another step of business success for designing programs with various entertainment for purposes of our customers in Tanzania and cross our borders.
And mtakia kilala luck in his new responsibilities, "has said.


