The African Union unapoendeshwa and Uhuruto-phobia October 17, 2013

Our African comedian haiishiwi.
From the era of detail Idd Amini, of Uganda, detail Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of Congo), Jean-Bedel Bokasa of Central Africa, Charles Taylor of Liberia, and now has a Omar al-Bashir of Sudan, and others who were comedian wegi, haviishi.

Well, these niliowataja waliitengeneza Africa to be a different comedian.
Comedian from the military, the administrative comedian in their countries, the comedian their lives private alimradi comedian; there were many that between this will take a long time kuvisahau history.

Explaining his experience on Africa, the journalist Mwingereza Martin Meredith, says however that together with these comedian and problems facing Waafrika normally, all the time while Africa uchangamfu he was surprised by the strength of their forever meeting with those challenges.
Meredith, has worked on journalism in Africa for more than 15 years since the age of 21 (the year 1964) and has written a popular book, "The State of Africa: A history of Fifty" Year of Independence.

In his own words, Meredith says ": What Hurts the always impressed over the years is the resilience and humour with which ordinary Africans confront Many wao" adversities.

Together with these comedian, there are people in the African walioifanya comedian at least can be respected and the other, which is very kupumbavu vifunikwe in a certain way, and these are the people of the second group.
In this list are detail Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, Nelson Mandela, has a Bishop Desmond Tutu, Nkuruma Kwame, Kofi Annan, Joachim Paisano and others.

Because the list of ninavyoviongelea comedian is so long, I would like to discuss the new incident only mashiko here to get what is happening in the African continent right now, while the African Union, has gotten in the trap of kukirutubisha over this incident.

This incident is a great efforts zilizopamba fire right now to kuwanasua President of Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto, in a case that they are facing in the International War Crimes Court (ICC).
As inavyofahamika, these cases involve the participation of these people (before two hawajawa in their power for now) in the chaos after the general elections of the Kenya the year 2007 / 2008.

Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto is politicians walioungana and kuviunganisha their parties, a few months before the elections of Kenya earlier this year.
To join them there in that period of their or their union elections in Kenya has come to identified made fun as Uhuruto.

Analysts of political issues wanabainisha that the two, Uhuru and Ruto is the youth of the retired president of Kenya, Daniel Arap MOI politically.
It is reported that one tribe anayetoka Ruto, the Kalenjin, and MOI amekuzwa political and MOI since he was a student at the University of Nairobi.

Uhuru he was a wide variety of MOI inherit the presidential in 2002.
However, hayakwenda things like how it was planned because Uhuru alibwagwa badly and Mwai Kibaki a camp.
Therefore to win the presidency for this year kumetimiza dream of Mzee MOI, although it is for the delay.

When they were doing a election campaigns of this year, the freedom and Ruto reiterated that if wangeshinda, wangeendelea partnering with the ICC.
But now faces yamebadilika.Kumekuwa and a big inspiration (from these leaders, their country and even their friends including-Tanzania) to oppose in general to continue on this case at this time while the leaders of the country.

This pressure umepelekea Parliament of Kenya intention recently itself in the ICC.
This means that contract itself in the Rome contract which created by kuuridhia ICC, who becomes the country has agreed to take appropriate action (meaning convicted) for a person or a group of people in this court if wametenda crime against human beings, like the mass murders and so on.

Inspiration of Kenya now umeungwa is backed by the African Union (AU).
Juma the previous one members of AU (through the ministers of foreign countries of the country, members of the AU) have met to discuss this issue in Addis Ababa.
For one voice, wameijia about ICC izifute demanding case against the freedom and Ruto, or izihamishie these cases in Kenya or izisitishe until when watakapomaliza their period in the leadership.

Or imeenda more for thinking to release his country in the ICC as his resolutions this hayatatekelezwa.


