
Our mind zimefungwa, then disappeared keys Aug 15, 2012

"TUMEROGWA and aliyeturoga and karogwa", then dies.
"No, hatujarogwa but I think harder, and our keys zimefungwa zimetumbukia" chooni.
Those are some of the kuzoeleka zinazoanza statement to the ears of wanapojadili Tanzania; the future of the country.
Ukisikia those statements can end at kucheka for kuzitafsiri that is only made fun.
But taking kuzitafakari time, you can find themselves unaungana kimtizamo and those people.
Right in the normal environment unawezaje describing "" wisdom of the Olympic Committee to fill many leaders of the athletes at the convoy of our representatives in the Olympics in summer of ended the day before yesterday in London, in England?
When our colleagues wakirejea Kenyans and several medals while Waganda wakijivunia the gold medal, we tumeendelea kupigilia "line" reputation our that pieces of mwendawazimu.
But the bad ukidhani in our participation in the Olympic sikiliza unachefua, then this great hot "" from our parliament tunaloliita "" tukufu.
Last week, the deputy speaker of parliament, honorable Job Ndugai told Wa Tanzania that some of their representatives in parliament (members of parliament) have been entered in the sessions that were legislative wamelewa alcohol and cigarette non-ordinary.
Before hatujaenda far to discuss this information threatening is good we remind one another that according to the recent amendments, the honorable members of parliament wanalipwa 11 million shillings per month.
It is important to mention that amount tunapowajadili these people so that we can be with the understanding that together with the poverty of our country tumejikamua and giving them these honorable welfare manono completely.
For a certain way ninampongeza Deputy Speaker Ndugai for kutufungua eyes about the question which ninadhani many citizens have been wakijiuliza, "why some of the honorable are temporary sleeping in parliament while" session is going on?
On the internet kumejaa pictures of "wachapa sleep in parliament" and there are many honorable only who like change parliament that part of the sleeping.
Some of us tulipoona pictures of that kind, maybe give tulijaribu hope that those honorable wanazidiwa and sleep because "wanakesha wakitafakari how to serve their voters, and maybe the country as a whole," more efficiently.
Likewise, the statement of Ndugai imetusaidia also throwing light on the contributions of some of the members of parliament that a citizen cannot akihisi to blame mchangiaji he is looking for the position of the involvement of Bongo Star Search for the talent of hits.
Inakera but that is the truth itself, some of the honorable takes the opportunity to contribute to the findings showing their competence of kukebehi, kudhihaki and even kutusi.
But kilichonikera in details of Ndugai is "kitoto defense" that, (ninamnukuu) "parliamentarians are people like other people, have just like other human beings, there are some who are joining ninavyohisi way to parliament in the afternoon, especially from the sessions were camped" beer.
First, our members are not the same as "" other people.
"Is how many other people" wanaitwa "honorable"?
And who is how many allowances for fulfilling their duties (despite being paid a salary for their positions)?
And is "" how many other people who are the salaries minono though in a big way in their success is more informative, kukashifiana and other porojo zisizomsaidia Mtanzania?
Ndugai not correct claimed that members of parliament are coming wamelewa "have just like the" other human beings.
I like to enter the classroom when I was a student siruhusiwi Nimelewa.
Even on the part of "drinks baamedi" is not allowed to enter amelewa at work.
Those now "human being like others" anaotueleza deputy speaker Sayari they had up?
Then kuchukiza more is the fact that the Deputy Speaker he knows that there are members of the parliament at while wamelewa but hachukui any action but anasubiri to get the opportunity knocking over the issue in an interview with television station.
This is inadequate leader.
Although we can to thank him for the secret "kutuibia yanayojiri in parliament" but bond that was handed to him not kunyooshea toes people (because of noted there are members of parliament drunkards) but to take action against the benefits "" criminals.
And not like nimetumia word "criminals" unfortunately.
Certainly not.
Someone anayelipwa 11 million shillings as a salary of kumwakilisha citizen, then he decided to do that representation while gotten several beer, or an unusual amevuta cigarettes (marijuana?) or amelamba certain things ("" flour -madawa trafficking?), he has no different.
Is a bandit anayesababisha Waishi people to wamudu to his interests to the expectations that those interests manono will bring efficiency at work but he anaishia to implement its obligations with "in profit" (kalewa)!
In one of my articles in the past niliweka open my stand that big salaries an our members of parliament is robbery the day kweupe (daylight robbery) because haiendani and in a bad state of the economy people.
And now the robbery unajidhihirisha clearly for the bad some honorable wanaopuuza parliamentary regulations and their responsibility to wamelewa in parliament.
But there is one question the foundation should asking, which every Tanzanian "imekuwaje TUMEFIKA WABUNGE in place some of WANATINGA WAKIWA" wamelewa?
The reader one of this magazine, Omary Abdallah, a Tanzanian that lives in Germany alinitumia a message through the Facebook akishauri that instead of continuing to kuwalaumu bad leaders to us by Tanzania themselves we check our weaknesses yanayotufanya wasiofaa (for example, to elect leaders with those drunkards).
Shortly, the reader anahitimisha that the nation has been plagued by fraud and uvivu.
Reference at the parliamentary campaign.
You will see the candidate "comes from the body and sweat mapovu in the mouth" kuwahadaa voters how anavyowajali.
And to our uvivu think, or hatuhoji if "" bitterness of that candidate is for the purpose of our interests or of his stomach (and maybe "" small houses his).
Those are the results tunaoambiwa wanatuwakilisha while wamekunywa, smoking or kulamba kilevi.
But also, in this skandali the problem of some of the members of parliament, I see the income of those honorable the factors that among the kuwasahaulisha their duties.
In the normal environment, someone anayepewa nyiiingi money more than his needs can end at very wonderful things.
For while abroad tunashuhudia some wanasoka, for example, who wanalipwa millions of money, and there is the kind of high kimtizamo that "" bugs that are done by some of them yanachangiwa and numbers of money usiowiana and their needs.
The issue of additional salaries of the members of parliament is seen as limeridhiwa and the public.
When doctors and teachers wakiambiwa the government does not have money to improve the benefits and the environment of their work, hatujapewa fundamental reasons for increasing the salaries of the members of parliament who have already had a very big salaries.
The performance of their many hauendani and even little "" walichokuwa before they are the new salaries.
It should be remembered that those millions to our members are Walipakodi funds, most of them is the poor of drinking.
There is every reason to not only condemning "unyonyaji this" but also kuupinga by all means.
Now, because the way you should be tumeruhusu parliamentary mkato of kukwaa wealth then tutarajie to see our elections in every type of zikiandamana and comedian and vioja among the who want to be part of this project the wealth of "chap chap" (get-Rich-quick inclusive scheme).
In a normal, who only whoever does not want to be paid, although several thousand shillings to sleep while the work only has two beer in three?
It's like to go to the bars then unalipwa by drunk.
I request ieleweke that not every member hatimizi his responsibility.
There are few patriotic wanaotambua their responsibilities.
Some of them, wameishia "kuumbuliwa" and speaker for constituency "violating the rules of parliament (isomeke: Defending the interest of voters in isiyokubalika way for the administrators).
These heroes few have the courage because their extra time wanatolewa outside for fulfilling their responsibilities, wanashuhudia some who are left to continue and forums while are temporary sleeping due to poor cigarette, drink normal kulamba or certain things.
Nimalizie to return to the questions niliyoyanukuu at the beginning of this article.
Tumerogwa and aliyeturoga and karogwa then dies, or our mental zimefungwa then umepotea key?
I request usinijibu but your answer should be made at the ballot box in the next election.
A way penye interest


