
The utterances of the ministry, to BMT concrete W last meaning, the Ministry of Information, Arts, Culture and Sports, together with his vessel,, the National Sports Council (BMT), about vilitoa statements of those standing in the games for this year.
Those statements were provided in a special interview with this newspaper lilipotaka to hear the voice of the government after starting the new year 2017.
The Deputy Minister of Information, Arts, Culture and Sports, Anastazia Wambura said the government offers a warning to the leaders of sports associations that this is the year of the implementation of the sports in action and during the bring porojo is over.
Wambura insisted that this year will be a waliozoea leading to leaders of sports in tension and that the government requires the implementation, efficiency and the aim is to make the year that with the success.
Said 2017, when you are in the year of the preparations of Sports of the Commonwealth of the year 2018, the African games of 2019, and the Olympic Games was scheduled to take place in the year 2020.
Wambura said the government wants to see every leader of the association of anatekeleza game his responsibilities, including the calendar year effectively.
BMT, through its secretary general, Mohamed Kiganja has promised that the year 2017 hautakuwa kumuonea embarrassing the leader of the sports any party will not be able to execute his duties fully.
Kiganja said wameuita in the year of the implementation of those acts, the bad leaders wawapishe and that that will start in the district of up to the nation.
Said that starting from now the song preparations usikike remained only on the leaders of sports associations and has promised to meet with them tomorrow to start sharing strategies.
Tunapongeza that plan, especially because the government imeshaona the weaknesses of the year 2016 which Tanzania continued that pieces of mwendawazimu.
If those statements zinajenga, but by the principle that zisiishie that is the statements in the media, zigeukie on the implementation of the sincere love and actions.
The minister to make this kuvibana parties calendar and implement through actions and BMT leaders to capture waliogeuza sports associations litarudisha vijiwe, respect of this sector.
A citizen can asking right, Tanzania, it is estimated to have 50 million people for now, inakosaje 100 athletes walioiva in different games represent in the Olympic?
The truth is that many leaders of sports associations are not for the purpose of sports, not for the purpose of managing sports programs for their parties, more than kuvigeuza vijiwe and look at the international associations funds zinazotumwa for the development of the games, but there is no any steps of inayopigwa meaning.
For starting, tunadhani Ministry and BMT to present the census parties, located in games and ikibidi that havijiwezi, viwezeshwe, better vikishindwa cancel and remain few and which will be able to meet the expectations of the citizens, especially lovers of the game.
We believe, together with those statements, strength between the Ministry, BMT, Directorate of sports development, the registrar of parties and sports clubs together with Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC)


