Anaswa Chinese on claims of abduction Tanzanite October 23, 2013

A citizen of China, Li Naeng (33) is arrested abduction of Tanzanite mineral contrary to the law of the country and caused the legal tension between Tanzania Tanzania Mineral Audit Urgency (TMAA) and the Magistrate's Court Hai District, Kilimanjaro province that was awarded judgment against the citizen.
In his judgment, the court awarded ilimpiga a fine the citizen of China who was arrested at Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) and return repeat those minerals worth millions of money.
According to the verdict of the case which mshitakiwa has admitted the crime of mining and found without valid documents, was sentenced to three years in prison or pay a fine of 300,000 shillings of Tanzania.
Together with the fine, the judgment which Good Citizen has seen its copies inahitimisha that those minerals mshitakiwa return because he is the rightful owner.
How alivyokamatwa

The investigation that was done by Good Citizen KIA and later was confirmed, and some of the officers TMAA unabainisha that Li Naeng, with travel documents number E 20203356 was arrested in that stadium International Airport on October 17, this year, at 5 o'clock 56: By the officer auditor TMAA where she was found and mineral Tanzanite worth 120348.80 US dollars (more than 190 million shillings of Tanzania).
The investigation unabainisha that Li Naeng was arrested in the area of the machine of inspection (x-ray machine) during akijiaandaa leaving by PW 723, heading to Nairobi in Kenya and later China, but after the inspection she was found and those minerals that he did not have any documents and was anayasafirisha contrary to the law.
According to our investigation that right been verified and some officials who, Li he did not have an important documents which is together with a license for the mining business (dealer liences) and a permit to transport minerals outside the country (export permit), contrary to the law of minerals of the year 2010.
One of the news our source tulichoshirikiana it in our investigation that; explains "after the procedures to be completed in him to continue with his journey, accused alijaza and to sign the form of documents to the minerals and TMAA number 000161 and those minerals yalifunguliwa in front of a police officer who was present in the field, Elihuruma" A.Mtera, as a witness.
Those reports keep noted that after finishing all the procedures at the airport (KIA), the defendant he had a brief session with the police station at the airport and be opened charges of smuggling minerals for RB number KIA / RB / 359 / 2013.
His tomorrow, on October 18th appeared before in the District Court of Hai and opened her case number 321 / 2013 he was found and minerals, contrary to the law, after inspectors of minerals from the regional offices to verify those minerals are of the disagreements.
More controversy

More reports zinabainisha that investigative, while the police station aliletewa suspect the payment documents of TRA (number: ID.01 / Bravo / 102118510 / 100167913 / 04TZ200025 8,000,000 million shillings, as the initial payments to the company Cultural Heritage Ltd which is the iliyomuuzia those minerals.
Moreover, in inayoongeza step of that scandal of TMAA documents, it shows that it was beaten (Print) at 08: 19: 16 in the morning when the suspect was amekwishakamatwa three hours ago (56: 11 o'clock in the morning), while preparing to kuyasafirisha minerals.
Also the documents did not have the Muhuri TMAA or in the office of the minerals in the northern region as the law inavyoelekeza and even tourists who buy minerals in normal shops, is forced to take them in the office so that their documents zipigwe Muhuri.
Another controversy in the scandal is in the documents of the claims (Tax Invoice) Company Ltd, the number of Cultural Heritage, / INV.10-16 / 13 which shows that those minerals were and the value of 89,698,644 million shillings and contrary to the real cost according to uthamanishaji minerals that was done by the officers of the office of the minerals in the region.
However, the efforts of Good Citizen finding the Director of Cultural Heritage Ltd, Seifdin Khabahai, explained the involvement of his company in the saga hazikufanikiwa phone number had been closed because all the time.
But the report zinadai being one of the famous business people in Arusha, who has a huge influence to leaders in government is aliyewafuata some officials of TMAA, with a copy of the judgment of the court he wanted to be given those minerals to the court that imeamuru that step that however, the officers walikataa.


