

Abdul MKEYENGE

The state of the presence in the general election of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) is expected to take place in August this year is unaotajwa and some of the analysts of issues of soccer in the country that is one of the many bugs kinachozalisha thing at the moment.

Wanting to return uongozini to some of the leaders and other leaders wanting to enter into power has made the leaders who are in power right now forget their duties by Wa Tanzania and focusing on the campaign to defend their seats.

This is the linaloufanya football comedy uonekane, not another one.
Every leader who is in power anatazama how he will be part of the leaders of the next course.
Ukishakuwa and the leader of this way, expected to meet and "these" cinema unazozishuhudia during this time.

Tunayoendelea events kuyaona is due to lack of leadership that can interactive good planning and kuusimamia the ball themselves so as to avoid a situation that is.
If they do not care what is happening and senior leaders, who she will take a break to come to the unknown?

If Wa Tanzania tumefikia here, we tricks again.
The leaders of TFF wametugueza their prisoners and wanatuendesha such whatever they want.
If we could have been and strong leadership unaosimamia interests of the Tanzania soccer tusingesikia tunazozisikia noise at the moment.
We could have been tumejikita talk, write the success of soccer in Tanzania, but is not right, every day is only problems!

During the leadership of Jamal Malinzi ukiongoni, heading to the problems have continued to increase.
Every unapomalizika one month to go to another month that problems that even yanapishana as four months.
Rare end month without happened the problem anything within our football.

Kinachoharibu is kusemekana that leaders themselves have been wagumu to meet with stakeholders kuzipokea challenges, instead, the leaders have been people of kujifungia inside their offices wakipigwa and "" AC.
Though advice, but it's not a must uchukuliwe stakeholders should be heard.
Siamini if we can create one house then we started to quarrel over poles.
Siamini.

Achana and all the problems in the past, including the issue of the Simba and Kagera Sugar kuzigombania three points is something linalogonga soccer lovers in the headlines, though yesterday that issue lilitarajiwa sent his decisions.

This issue has been heavy and to do to the people of different institutions of soccer to intervene and others kunyoosheana until the toes.
But the size of this issue umekuzwa and TFF and his committee which have not been able to manage within their rules and instead the issue moving to in the will of individuals.

The principles of the league board (TPLB) are quite clear as itafahamika a player has played a match has three yellow card in the last games is not allowed to play the following game and dancing his punishment is known.
And as a player it there is no card didn't have to make the case that can be keen kuisikilizia people all the time.

The report of the referee is the statement of the end of believing due to the incident every difference and the values of the soccer game must lilipotiwe inside reports.
It is alleged in the report of the referee shows a player of Kagera Sugar, Mohamed Fakhi, got a card in his team's game against African Lyon, but the player himself hakupewa amepinga that card that day.

Confusion of the committee of 72-hours and committee for justice and dignity of players about that issue unatokea where up to the report of the referee inashindwa heard?
Iliyoje shame in our football waliitwa until African Lyon that played in Kagera Sugar, went to be satisfied with the evidence.
If we do not trust the report of the referee report of another person tutaiamini what?

Kuwakusanya together, Fakhi, African Lyon and bringing referees before the committee is seeking evidence of violence that cannot be throwing the correct answers more than the report of the game.
TFF and his committee ilitakiwa make a clarification this issue by using only report so that every one ARUDI at the kuujenga football development of Tanzania.

Tanzania is only where you can meet with this situation and Wa Tanzania themselves they seem not to care so much.
But despite this situation is a period now of TFF and his committee tackling afresh some of its regulations and leave the team to get the victory at the table.

Inakosesha taste of the soccer team for that every ilichonacho for the purpose of winning the match on the field and later have denied victory.
TFF and his committee isimamie well the rules of the team itakayofanya acts of this way meet with a fine, but the team iliyoshinda to remain with their victory.

In this members of Simba and their fans have been prioritized said even youth squad "Serengeti Boys" goes Gabon because of the way the table, but those people walipaswa to know the appeal of TFF youth team to go to the Confederation of African Football (CAF) and the appeal of Simba for TFF and his committee is two different appeal.
These are two different appeal.

The national team the youth of DR Congo, broke kumchezsha miiko for oldest player "" kijeba.
And the punishment this way are open to the CAF that is why hatukuisikia noise of fans of DR Congo, walijua have done wrong and walihitaji punishment of being removed.
But part of the Simba is only kikanuni issues, but not Kagera Sugar denied their win.

The issue of Simba, Kagera Sugar needs wisdom of kilichoandikwa and the referees of the game of Kagera Sugar and African Lyon.
We all other tunavyovisikia tunadanganyana.
It does not matter that it's true the player was given a card or hakupewa.
It does not matter if the referee wrote true card as he got player or.
We need kuziamini the report of the referees.
As hatuamini tutamuanini another who their report


