
Simba yafia town, Yanga wanacheka

It has been written by Our Reporters

Imechapishwa: 07 November 2016

Simba yesterday ilionja heat being in the premier league after accepting defeat of 1-0 against African Lyon in a match that was played at the Uhuru Stadium Dar es Salaam.

During the summer ikionja Simba, his mtani rivals, Yanga ilichanua for a 1-0 victory away the field of Sokoine Mbeya against Prisons while Azam ikikubali a score of 2-1 from the machine at the CCM Kirumba, Mwanza.
At the Uhuru Stadium Dar es Salaam, iliichukua in the 90th minute Lyon to get the victory against the league leaders, Simba for a goal scored by Abdullah Msuhi aliyeunganisha passport Raizan Hafidh kuujaza before the ball into the net.
Simba ikishambulia was all the time of that game while Lyon iliyocheza the defensive game more ikishambulia a surprise.
In the 38th minute, Lyon attacks went through their player Miraji Selemani, but his ball of aliopiga punishment uligonga rock and from outside.
Janvier Bukungu nusura aipatie Simba in 48 minutes but his hard lilipaa about.
Laudit Mavugo nusura in 60 minutes close but while at a good position his ball unawahiwa and defenders of Lyon and kuuondosha danger area.
The results have enabled Simba to continue to lead the league standing with 35 points.
At the Sokoine Mbeya, Heroine defending champions Yanga, was Simon Msuva who scored the goal through a penalty in the 74th minute.
The match referee gave the penalty after the Yanga player, Obrey Chirwa kuchezewa badly in the danger area.
Previously, Prisons got a penalty Yanga's keeper, Beno Kakolanya akaokoa that mkwaju and thus leaving the team as safe.
Yanga now has continued to be the second position in the table with 30 points, a difference of five points against leaders Simba.
The second winner of last season, Azam has continued to get the results of the fever programs after yesterday and Mbao FC defeated 2-1 at the CCM Kirumba Mwanza.
The results have enabled Azam should remain with 22 points while Mbao by attaining 16 points.
Wood wrote his first goal in the 30th minute scored by Venance Ludovick aliyeunganisha the sides Boniphace Maganga before kuujaza the ball into the net.
The 50 minute Maganga machine for a second goal in the 67th minute and Francesco Sekumbawira Azam for goal of consolation for.


