
Economic Diplomacy itazame DR Congo Dec 22, 2016

There is a sign of believing that the state can water got dirty and be worse, in the neighboring country of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).

The problem is that the nation lilitakiwa doing his election according to its constitution this year, but because of what the opposition of President Joseph Kabila wanakiita figisufigisu, the election uliahirishwa.

What is happening now in the Democratic Republic of Congo is a blow for democracy another of the African continent.
If there is anything kibaya which kinarejea Africa fast these days, is that the behavior of the administrators to'ang'ania power.

Which we would like the first kulisisitiza is that the citizens of the DRC have a right kujiamlia the fate of their country without interference from any country foreign.

However, the truth is that is clear that the citizens of Congo hawataachwa and mabeberu decide their fate -kama which has been for approximately 50 years ago.

Is the reason, unique tunaiomba, our government isikubali being left behind or kupitwa and what is going on inside of that nation.

Economically, DRC is among the most important partners in business of Tanzania.
According to the statistics of the year yesterday, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Zambia alone, they are inayopitishwa cargo using the port of Dar es Salaam for more than 70 percent.

During the state as therefore, we know that other great users of our port, Burundi, they are at something that limeathiri ufanyikaji; chaos in business.

Because now we have decided to follow is called Economic Diplomacy, tunadhani Tanzania can't accept to being left behind while others seeking a solution for a short period of time, and of a long time about the DRC.

We should not accept to be seen people with the side that is going on in the country at the moment (although they are the side to a certain way, because at the end of the day, our client is supposed to be a nation of DRC.

By whatever -kwa have the responsibility of such, because of our economic interests in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and the fact that major problems being the wave of refugees litakuja us to ensure tunashiriki in ensuring hayaharibiki things.

This is because, in the neighborhood kukiungua, you are not safe.


