
Confusion the case "Mpemba" of elephants' and his colleagues 6

It has been written by Francisca Emmanuel

Imechapishwa: 16 December 2016

The case of being involved in the sale of elephants facing six people including businessman Yusuf Yusuf (34) famous "Mpemba," has continued to bring confusion in court after the prosecution is unable to explain what steps will follow after the investigation of the case is complete.

The case which ilikuja for being mentioned, the government lawyer, Elizabeth Mkunde claimed in front of Senior resident magistrate Thomas Simba that investigation of the case that is complete and that is the head of the investigation file to the special unit of Dar es Salaam in order to be taken by the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) in the country.
Due to that argument, the part of the lawyers washitakiwa claimed that the case was presented on November 16 this year, the prosecution ulidai that investigation is complete and that linasubiriwa taken to file to the DPP.
However, Simba magistrate said that every when it comes to the court file linaleta confusion so he wanted to make sure that the prosecution in that case inapokuja another date, they can have a satisfactory answers that after the investigation is expected to end what steps will follow.
"Is true that this court has no authority to listen to the case, but the prosecution to explain to you what until now if the investigation is complete, there is no explanation is what stage zitafuatwa," said Simba magistrate.
Aliahirisha magistrate that case until December 29 this year, that case itakapokuja for the mention.
Previously, that case ilipopelekwa for the first time the side of the Republic ulidai is expected to taking those defendants at the high court investigations unit of corruption and Economic ", popularly known as the court" corrupt, for the purpose of starting to be heard.
Those defendants apart from Yusuf is Charles Mrutu (37) a resident of Morogoro, Benedict built in Mlimba, (40), a resident of Mbagala Chamazi, Tuesday Chima (30), a resident of Mbezi, Ahmed Nyagongo (33) a driver and Pius Kulagwa (46) are faced with four charges of being involved in the sale of elephants worth 785.6 million shillings.
It is alleged in on the difference between January 2014 and October this year, while in Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Iringa and Mtwara, walijihusisha and the network of poaching by collecting and selling government which is 50 it the elephants' worth of American dollars equivalent to 392.8 million shillings, 000 without a permit the director of wildlife.
In the second charge, it is alleged that on October 26th, this year, while Mbagala Zakhem, were 10 it and the elephants' va 13.85 kilograms of weight of the value of 30,000 US dollars (65.4 million shillings).
In other charges, it is claimed that on October 27 this year, while Tabata Kisukuru were those four it and the teeth the weight of 11.1 kilograms and the value of 15,000 US dollars (32.7 million shillings).
Moreover, on October 29, this year were 36 into pieces and the value of shillings 294.6 million without a permit the director of wildlife.
Simba magistrate said defendants should not lose hope since they their to answer the charges because the court does not have the ability to listen to the case, therefore aliiahirisha until the first of December this year.


