
Translation has the main mission translation is the act of kuhawilisha certain information from natural language iliyoandikiwa relevant information to lengwa language.
Translation usually with the aim of tried to transfer the message, why and all taathira kimawasiliano and kisanaa from chanzi language to pokezi language.
This issue is not easy even a bit, and the current evidence is a few translation ithibati that are in the world today, especially with the misahafu, is uhalisi especially of natural reports.
Therefore, yaelekea that to translation can be done in his uhalisi yazingatiwe requirement, several things: First, mtafsiri must azimudu well both language, the language that is natural and lengwa language; it's not in the ability and the ability of kisarufi kimawasiliano only, but also the ability of emotionally, kimatumizi and cultural matters.
The ability of making kisarufi is that sentences kisarufi are correct and zinakubalika in the use of the language itself.
Them kimawasiliano is the ability of a person to be able to present his idea and understood.
However, sometimes someone can identified in his statement, although the communication is not correct kisarufi, kimatumizi and cultural matters.
The ability of language unaomhakikishia mtumizi kimatumizi is the one that uses a certain structure of language according to miiko and various custom zinazokubalika in certain language.
Second, mtafsiri if possible, be amefunzwa skills yafaa this translation on the basis of the kiisimu theory lessons and especially the translation.
Of moreover, mtafsiri must be amepitia and kupikika within the various theory lessons the translation and to know what method; in which way and what translation to play in a certain work the translation.
Third, especially the aim of aelewe mtafsiri is required to translate certain work so as to be able to choose the kind of translation needed in the implementation of his work.
Four, mtafsiri also can measure the opportunity social and cultural matters that exists between two languages atakazozitumia.
This is important because every there is a great opportunity between the two culture of those languages, then it becomes difficult to get good translation real and as required.
The language as an agent of communication stems from the source and a certain culture and that is also an illustration of the community.
Because various community hutofautiana cultural matters and therefore kilugha, must the presence the difficulty of translating information to one another.
Watch for example how difficult ingalikuwa kufasiri this statement from the Swahili to go to the English: "Lila and fila havitangamani," "Mgalla muue and his rights, for" "usirukie words," "aliyebugia wife many salt" and regional "" has broken.
In this situation, the article or the report kifasihi becomes more difficult to translate, because Literature i very close to the culture of people and therefore husomba many statement with-explained that culture.
Isitoshe, Literature and as any art, has the direction of creativity and his emphasis on usanii.
Kisanaa language often haisemi usually open, therefore humpa mtafsiri difficulty.
First kutegua mtafsiri is forced the trap kimafumbo and vitendawili inayotegwa and the author of the work of Literature; and then atafute word or saying right and good unaokaribiana and vitendawili thus depending on the language.
That is why tunapongeza good translation of Fortunatus Kawegere of Animal Farm-Gardens of animals and translation of Julius Nyerere of Julius Ceaser -Julius Kaisari and Merchants of Venice-mabepari of Venisi.
Arts, it is clear that the translation of the work of kisanaa mtafsiri needs for a certain amount, kuingiwa and ilhamu or kariha as Chair an artist when he was writing.
But maybe a question lingeulizwa: So, translation has what importance?
Why wajitaabishe people look for the word or certain statement from one language to without doubt the importance of translation ulibainika very old.
Imagine the issue of distributing and information in the world of today who has been as the village due to globalisation.
Also the mabadilishano thoughts, culture, science, technology and various vumbuzi that require collective translation.
But the maybe more important here is the translation in education.
Swahili language will be the language of education in our education systems one day.
Then itatulazimu tutafsiri books of education from the language mbalimballi zinazohifadhi knowledge and different professions.
Without doubt the existence of the champions itatokea need to translate well to prosper Swahili language iende alongside inayofasiriwa for language Kiswahili. alex.ngure @ yahoo.com


