
CHADEMA Mbeya YAELEZA reasons as to resign for his Publicity secretary

Rashid Mkwinda

Two days after the former secretary of CHADEMA Mbeya City Lucas Mwampiki announcing his resignation from his position, the party kimedai that kilishamvua that position before resigning from hajatangaza kuvujisha secrets on the party in opposition.

Mwampiki who is also the councilor of Mwakibete announced his resignation from the position of the secretary to the claims that he has been akitengwa and some of the leaders of the party in various activities of the party in his position as a member.

While announcing the decision of the party against Mwampiki, the chairman of CHADEMA Mbeya district in John Mwambigija said that session of leadership that the secretary kumvua kiliketi April 14th after being satisfied the conduct of its performance and he announced his resignation from the position April 16.

He said that following that state, the leadership of the party in the district by involving umeridhia unseat legal sittings of the party in his position as well as blocking any activity against the party.

Mwambigija said that the top leader of the party, he violated the sections of the constitution of the party in majungu and not being honest and muwazi as well as being involved in the deception that on the valid decision of the party.

"" For one statement we have decided to suspend all activities of the party for one year, he will continue with his counselor, hatakiwi to do anything related to our party, continuing the decision we kumnyang'anya kumvua membership card and, "" said Mwambigija.

He explained that one of the reasons avuliwe problems that caused his position include kuvujisha secrets on the party to the opposition as well as not releasing the cooperation in the process of the party of the now "Chadema is" Primary waliouchukua decision and that is in the law zinazolindwa and the constitution of the party.

He said that before taking the decision kilimuita party leader at four times where he was unable to attend the blessings of those waliouchukua decision has a legal sittings of the party, and that even so he had the opportunity to appeal to the top level if ataona that hajatendewa justice against the decision.

On his side, the secretary aliyejiuzulu Mwampiki said that he decided to resign after seeing the hapewi cooperation and his fellow leaders and that most of the time he was interrogating the primary things the party has been akinyooshewa develop it as a finger msaliti.

"" I have decided to resign himself without being pressured by a person, due to the health of the party, according to the constitution of the party of the year 2006 article 6.3.4 (a) kinaainisha an end of this leadership, nimetumikia the party in every situation to financial resources, nitaendelea being a member mwaminifu, "" said Mwampiki.

Moreover, he said that he has never being called Kuandikiwa and leaders or any letter inayomtaka to arrive at the office that according to the procedures is supposed kumfikia within 14 days and he put his signature, any decision uliochukuliwa against him ulipaswa considering those procedures.

I cannot "" action without writing which yanapaswa kunifikia within 14 days, otherwise my against any decision to resign to me, apart from haujafuata legal procedures, "" said Mwampiki.


