
Waliohodhi wabanwe land more

It has been written by an editor

Imechapishwa: 17 October 2016

In many parts of the country, there has been a cry for a long time of some of the citizens lack of land for agriculture, livestock and the construction of settlements while in the areas around them, there are few citizens wamehodhi great areas which many between yamegeuka mapori due to his kutoendelezwa.

That lament kimesikika now because the fifth phase of the government, has begun to take action as kuwanyang'anya those people due to the kutoyaendeleza, instead, providing them with a commitment to develop the given including farmers for the purpose of agricultural activities.
If it is not enough, the day before yesterday, the Minister of Lands, Housing and Urban Development, William Lukuvi noted the government's strategy to capture wanaohodhi kuyaendeleza without more areas where from July next year, kutawekwa strict law of land ownership and the owners of those big watatozwa taxes.
We tunapongeza the decision of the government because the state now has been bad, a rich wanamiliki land without developing while wanazungukwa and the citizens in the areas that they have areas to farm and to build a shelter.
Using that opportunity and turning the Tanzania that "Mabwana and watwana," because those areas wanayatumia kuwakodisha farmers to big money for the purpose of farming just without ensuring that the owners of the land.
Others wamekwenda more, wanamiliki wasiyoendeleza land and use in order to get bank loans, loans that haiendelezi land that it should be for agriculture, livestock or even be built industries during the land ingeweza to be used for the production of property and the country to get the income and people get employment.
We have witnessed the grounds are also who own more than five wakikaa begin with for many years without considering the presence of law that requires kuendelezwa grounds in three years.
The grounds wanavitumia as business where wanavihodhi for more than five years, later kuviuza at a high price when the government iligawa and selling to the citizens growth and alleviate the problem of settlement.
Due to that situation at the new areas like Gezaulole, Kisota, Tuangoma, Mbweni, Bunju in Dar es Salaam until today, since the year 2003 havijaendelezwa vigawiwe grounds, and changed into mapori of criminals.
There are other areas like Gezaulole and Mabwepande grounds since ishapita citizens should be given three years there is no sign the start of the construction.
That situation also tumeiona Mbezi Beach where it is more than 30 years, since they should be given plots citizens but is still mapori.
When kuyalangua wanahodhi those areas and at a higher price, there are many Tanzania with the finances for building houses, they don't have the land to construct, therefore, the aim of the government to reduce the problem of shelter continues to hit rock bottom.
Tunaiomba the government through the minister of lands, Lukuvi, to address this issue of wanaohodhi land without advancing to ensure law inang'ata kunyang'anywa regardless areas for the position of the owner in the community.
Tunasema so, because there is a rumor that there are veterans of past government and even the business people have great areas and hawajayaendeleza while poor citizens, having problems of the areas of the construction of settlements, agriculture and domesticating.
The act of people while others kuhodhi land without even a small piece of food, generating kinasababisha hatred.
That situation ikiachwa to continue is the same as making a bomb which many likilipuka litamaliza, wasiokuwamo and the ones that are.
It is good tuchukue early precaution before dangerous happened.
Existing laws to waendeleze people land for the construction within three years, to work for the actions, the government iwanyang'anye wasioendeleza land and the law of levying taxes for the owners of those areas, kicks being used to work every region.


