Yanga, they get anayewafaa secretary?
Dec 4, 2014

There was a time I ever said through my in one in this newspaper that, to be a leader in the club of Simba and Yanga, you are required to have a certain certain.

Nikataja some of those behaviors like that mjanjamjanja and someone to give numerous promises when you want to vie for various positions, even if you that there is no a conducive environment for enable you to implement those promises.
But also the person you should be able to withstand disputes and misukosuko of here and there from members of the club.

This situation was there in those club in those days old, is for now, and the whole system will continue if the kuziongoza Simba and Yanga hautabadilika.

Club is a big problem in these kuegemea decision in which many times been done and members of the party, or through forums and informal or official meetings.

There is when it seems clear that some of the members in these clubs are for the purpose of their interests and not the interests of the club.
For example, there has been poor implementation in these groups club which all day yanaibuka during the conflicts and not during the development programs.

This system of these clubs who umeendekezwa, there is a possibility of taking them in trouble this club more than zilipo here.
History shows that the club of Simba and Yanga zimedumu for a long time in the premier league and showing rivals who have made fun of those teams that and many lovers.

There is no foundation of that took place on the side of investing in soccer in this country more than various leaders who have been entered the power that ghost and plans.

Maybe this situation may be badhi inachangiwa and the members of the clubs with the thoughts of close to check and not far.
The reputation of this club is raising conflicts from time to time starting to members to the leadership.

At the end of the week there was a report of the former secretary general of Yanga, Beno Njovu level to release, but more information zikisema that he has finished his term, according to the contract and the club.

There is no who hajamaliza Njovu that his time, but the way that was used to release the announcement through the media that is with walakin.

Njovu, who had come to power in January this year, taking the position of Lawrence Mwalusako, found himself leaving power in the same style alioondokea Mwalusako.
For the calculations quick Yanga, has made changes of three secretaries within 15 months.

Before Mwalusako was, Celestine Mwesigwa, who now is the secretary general of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF).
Yanga also has ever done was the secretary general from Kenya, Patrick Nagi elders of wakamkataa Yanga, because it is not a member Yanga.

Tunarudi there in that some of the members are and the decision without knowing its meaning.
Walijisahau that that is the position of being employed and not the position of the members to vote like what to the chairman and other leaders.

The secretary is an important leader in any particular institution.
Is a leader who is supposed to be responsible in broad in its institutions.
Meaning of that is in the plans for a long time and for a short period of time.
As nilivyotangulia said previously, kinachotawala football club is big in our members who sometimes fail to identify their positions.

During that time wanachaguliwa secretaries, were sitting power for a long time.
And the secretary after getting into power was trying to create a certain group which if there will be any problem to be ready to defend.

These days has changed things after those positions that zinatangazwa and people wanaajiriwa due to their reputation professional.
There are several things to consider in order to at least wanaoajiriwa secretaries in these clubs are able to sit for a long time in order to implement records plans for the purpose of development.

Kinachoonekana for now, the position of the secretary to the club Simba and Yanga is like the registration of the player.
Because that the leadership you can build a difficult environment due to personal reasons akachukia employment and he decided to release his level himself.

As it is with some of the leaders intervene power of their coaches in various decision including the registration, therefore it is for now, the leaders wanting to get involved in the responsibilities of their secretaries.
The current secretaries to our old club these wamegeuka that as clerks, because of the leadership of the club wants to do everything.

For the ongoing situation at Yanga club to change the secretaries, must members and the leaders wajiangalie afresh while wakitakiwa to know that the problem is there in the club.
If it is not to members is for the leadership.

There is having a certain tension by some people wanting to what wanachosema kipite without being challenged.
But for the position of secretary general is expected to be given the opportunity to do its work without interference pasipokuwa and the primary reason.

Yanga may be wanajipa hope for this style depending on the formation of the depending on simena "Sterling one kujididimiza themselves, they are continuing to make their plans to end at the words and papers, kuwafaidisha few clever.

Without change in this, it will be a things that inside the Yanga Club.
His translation it may be as that of the administration of forced.
Or that is saying that Yanga hawajampata secretary anayewafaa until now, that is why they have been wakiajiri every after a short time?


