Waongoza women to the AIDS infections in Dec 07, 2016

Apart from deliberate efforts of the government and the stakeholders of the fight against AIDS in the country is still not satisfactory situation in the city of Dar es Salaam, where linashika in the sixth place in Africa for infection of the disease.

Dar es Salaam, which is a big city all than Tanzania linakadiriwa having 210,000 people living with the HIV virus 58 percent of whom are women, and according to the population and housing census of 2012, the number of the residents of the city it is estimated that 5 million.

According to a report on the state of the world from the HIV and AIDS program of the United Nations - Tanzania (UNAIDS) for the year 2015, the city of Dar es Salaam has been among the cities in the African continent with a high level of infection of the AIDS.

The officer of Tanzania, UNAIDS says Fredrick Macha 16 percent of all mainland Tanzania new infections are happening in the city of Dar es Salaam, where for women aged boys of 15-24 years the level of infection kimefikia 7 percent% because sex involving themselves with the young age together with the business ukahaba.

Explains that infections from the mother to go to a child in Dar es Salaam is six percent (6%), despite the great efforts of the government and various stakeholders of the fight against AIDS, educate and to encourage pregnant women to measure and follow the professional advice of how to protect themselves from HIV.

"Data for the ministry of the health of the year (2011-2012), one out of five people in Dar es Salaam is the sexual relationship with more than one person, and often do sex non-safe so that one is a sign of the increase of infection especially for" said Macha married.

Furthermore amevitaja some of the factors and vinavyochangia indicators in the presence of a huge increase in infection in the city that is the growth of the speed of economic activities and commercial unaosababisha muingiliano of people from different regions in the country together with other nations.

Dar es Salaam as yalivyo muingiliano other cities in the world with the culture and various custom limeathirika also yanayoelezwa and groups of new HIV infections such as businessmen, who participated in the sex of same-sex love and drug users and for kujidunga.

"According to those statistics, between 4 women who are involved in the sex business, one is mwaathirika and the AIDS virus (equivalent to 26 percent) as .Vile out of five people who participated in the same-sex love, one person being affected so, equivalent to 22.3 percent) and among six people who use drugs through injection, one is the victims of the AIDS virus (equivalent to 15.5 percent)," said Macha.

Furthermore Macha said together with the various challenges, the city of Dar es Salaam limependekezwa that one of the few cities in the world for example the strategy of the world to strengthen the control of cities in AIDS (UNAIDS Fast Track Cities Initiative).

The strategy is able to do big cities in Africa more accountable to increase efficiency in the fight against AIDS in urban areas, because the speed of HIV infections and numbers of are towns.

Together and cities that a lot of resources, system of providing health services is still inaandamwa and various challenges, especially in developing and implementing a good plans to make sure that the involvement of all people especially special groups in the community, that the level of infection is big.

On his side, the minister of state, the office of the prime minister, policy, parliament, employment and people with disabilities, Jenista Mhagama says the current statistics show that 6.2 percent of women in the country wameambukizwa the disease of AIDS as compared to 3.8 percent of men, something that needs more efforts to protect themselves.

"According to the research of the indicators of the HIV virus (HIV) and Maralia (THMIS) of the year 2011 / 2012 on the side of Tanzania mainland vinaonyesha that a large number of women wameambukizwa the disease than men.

Minister Mhagama says that as a result of that research, contracting the HIV virus on the side of Tanzania mainland is 5.3 percent and it is estimated that a total of Tanzanians 1,538,382 living with HIV where youths aged between 15-24, is 10.6 percent and children below the age of 15 is 11.8.


