
Facebook consumers whites kumsakama Kikwete Nov 30, 2014

During Wa wakionekana using private page many Tanzania President Jakaya Kikwete in Facebook network sending greetings, the people of Europe and America have been seen to plan for kumsakama vinavyoendelea poaching in the country has been determined.

President Kikwete is going to the United States after the surgery and treatment of male gland (prostate) and has been akiwasiliana and Wa Tanzania in different ways of communication through phone and social media.

However, at the time of many Tanzania that used the opportunity to give him the Kikwete communication condolences and wishing apone quickly, people who have their names show origin of Europe and America, have been seen to use that opportunity to say yanayowakera.

For example, one person who identified himself as Jeremy Gregory, wrote on the page that hatatembelea again Tanzania as a tourist, if the government haitasitisha killing of elephants.

"Sitatembelea again your country till your government itakapoonyesha sincere efforts of dealing with poaching.
I request nitawaeleza nikuahidi that many people to as inavyowezekana about that is going on in the country brutality against you to them.
Until now your leadership haujanivutia completely, "wrote that person.

Another person, Niala Orsmond, he alilaumu about the news that were spread on social media about the wawindaji from Arab countries to kill animals without following procedures.

"Right hamuoni shame?
Therefore the family carpets of Dubai inaruhusiwa killing any animals inaotaka so that owe money?
That he does not know that elephants or wakimalizika cannot be returned to Simba for money?
Msipende money than "life, said the lady.

Many messages from people wanaoonekana is of American and European kuegemea seem to be more on the issues of the tourism, while Wa Tanzania showing more caring about the health of their leader.

For example, one young man who identified himself as Abkary Yondani alimuandikia President Kikwete; the following words "very Pole, our father, Tanzania... God atajaalia and" utapona.

President Kikwete is among the African presidents wanaofahamika from time to time for the use of the social media and is among the leaders with many friends that on the internet for the continent of Africa.

President Kikwete, according to information from the Directorate of communication of the president at the State House - in Dar es Salaam, is expected to be back in the country on Saturday, November 29, this year, if all the issues of treatment in the United States have anayoendelea yatakwenda well.


