President Magufuli aipongeza Kilimanjaro Queens

It has been written by Genofeva Matemu - WHUSM

Imechapishwa: 21 September 2016

President Doctor.
John Pombe Magufuli, has congratulated the players of the women's soccer team in Tanzania Mainland, Kilimanjaro Queens to make history by being the first champions of the championship of Chalenji cup for the countries of East and Central Africa (CECAFA Challenge) that took place in the town Jinja in Uganda.

Kilimanjaro Queens has succeeded in the Championship after kuibwaga Kenya (Harambee Starlets) with 2-1 in the final game that took place yesterday on September 20, 2016.
Through those congratulations in accordance to the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Mhe.Nape Moses Nnauye, President Magufuli has said Kilimanjaro Queens imeandika history which inalipa honor National inaamsha and morale for the athletes to do well in the competition.
"Honorable.
Minister Nape Nnauye I request unifikishie many congratulations to the players of Kilimanjaro Queens, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), teachers, and the leaders of the team together with all stakeholders contributed to our team to prepare the National women that eventually has major championship in this tournament.
"I have been much delighted by this championship and I request the players of Kilimanjaro Queens and other athletes in the country took this victory as the challenge of to put more effort in our games to the country to get the championship isiishie Chalenji but also got a win in sports and many other tournament which it participates" said President Magufuli.
President Magufuli has also requested all the Tanzania to continue supporting the athletes and encouragement to the players for that their success yanaitangaza country and have a great contribution to the development.
Previously the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Moses Nnauye has congratulated the players of the national team of women's soccer in Tanzania Mainland, Kilimanjaro Queens on behalf of the government and the Tanzanians for good work waliyoifanya until being champions of the first of Confederation of East and Central Africa Football Associations (CECAFA).
Minister Nnauye made those congratulations when he spoke to the press today in Dar es Salaam.
"As the government is good for our team to congratulate the Kilimanjaro Queens to represent well Tanzania in the tournament and emerging CECAFA champions are able to travel from all vizingiti vilivyokuwepo in that tournament" said Nnauye and increasing ": Government will continue to put enough strength and joining hands with our team to help them to make sure they are doing well in different games".
Nnauye said Tanzania starts to see the fruits of the investment for a long time because it was not an easy job for the Kilimanjaro Queens to reach the finals and being champions for fighting tough team and to be able to win.
Furthermore Nnauye has promised the Kilimanjaro Queens invite players in the next parliament to congratulate and kuwaandalia a friendly match between them and the members of parliament women to recognize their contribution to fly the flag of Tanzania.
Who team Chalenji cup of CECAFA is Tanzania, Burundi, Zanzibar, Kenya, Ethiopia, Rwanda and Uganda, the host.
Chalenji Cup tournament the CECAFA to the team of women have taken place for the first time something linalotafsiriwa the tournament can improve the women soccer for the countries of East and Central Africa.


