UBSIKURANTI May 31, 2012

(((I apologized to start this section of my debate parandesi to another.
Parandesi this week imelazimishwa and pieces of nilichoteua words for the purpose of the article this week: OBSIKURANTI.
As nilivyodokeza at the end of last week, the article nashindwa get the Swahili word litakaloeleza well the concept of the word ki-western obscurantism "" or "" obscurantist.
Certainly, there are many concept tunazozijadili every day which hazijapatiwa expedite words in our language, and this is one of those.
In tuliyo situation, then, to nadiriki saying that, from time to time, tutohoe, tutunge, tuzue, tufue or tufinyange new words from the words that resulted from another language.
It's not all that, together with the Swahili language, zilivyokua?)))
Someone anayeelezwa as obsikuranti (obscurantist) is the one holding the anachodhani that anakijua and akaking'ang'ania with all his efforts, and he was ready to go for war even defend his "" skills.
Is someone who issues that could be yamepitwa and when, and knowledge of showing so-scale developments, but he does not want even to hear or see something lo can be whole kuyumbisha or kuteteresha his ignorance.
The community can also scored and the minyororo uobsikuranti.
The truth is that the community is the huzaa obsikuranti people, because that the community hujenga his systems peacefully for a long time, and huiwekea procedures of the system and kimiundo, as well as the rules, regulations and a custom zinazohakikisha every mwanajamii knee playing in front of faith kimapokezi, most of the time for kuadhibiwa fear.
Tumezaliwa all of us in the community with several faith zilizoandamana and instructions together with grand makatazo.
Tumejamiishwa (socialised) in faith, those laws, rules and regulations, basically without having the opportunity to question the need to do so.
In this way, even those instructions that are beneficial, or makatazo beneficial, tunayafuata and kuyatii without knowing why we are doing so.
The African many haziruhusu waulize children many questions, especially if those questions with the direction of the foundation of faith kusaili zilizozoeleka.
A child wanting to know than atachapwa anavyostahili knowing, or ataambiwa is mkaidi or mdaku, he does not teach haheshimu, big, and so on.
Its consequence is that, in the arena, tumejenga our community on the basis of faith that don't have the old mashiko in today's world, and or haishangazi development that you know ourselves.
Our community haziruhusu udadisi, and without udadisi no development.
Nitalirejea in front of this journey.
This situation has the relationship with the issues that I have been nayajadili for some time now, especially the education and health services for our people.
In understanding well the problem of uobsikuranti and how to deal with the issues of education and health yanajitokeza directly.
Even in an environment of uobsikuranti that prevails, in the darkness, ignorance and ujuha, ones few airplane the light that even the strength of uobsikuranti can kuiziba completely, despite having kuifunikafunika can be certain for some time.
Finally the airplane hujikusanya and linking strength and then that kurunzi with light winds unaoonekana every a place.
That situation in the main airplane uobsikuranti like this can be able to come out and eventually that a strong isiyozuilika is due to the great pressure the agents of change (Agency of together with).
There is no great agents of change than education, education is aiming to break the true minyororo of this uobsikuranti, the eyes and brain kumulika light winds inside the human mind.
Because this investment in education is the best investment in the fight against uobsikuranti.
We can tukalumbana until the chicken wanarudi home about good education that is called the best (and tungelumbana instead of pretending to be administrators know on behalf of us), but several things that your hayakubali long debate.
For example, for those relating to the debate that we have right now, it's impossible "" may be better education is one that makes them not wanaoipata believe that there are people wanapaa using helicopter as a shovel from Songea until Tanga.
Aliyepitia person school up to the university and degree akapata this or that, and we are still be believes that the helicopter wanatengeneza Tanzania makuti of that school, kapitia only, but education imempita aside.


