
Magufuli afichua to disband the board TRA secret

It has been written by John Gagarini, Kibaha

Imechapishwa: November 25th, 2016

President John Magufuli has disclosed the secret of his steps to disband the board of directors of Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).

Said he was forced to take that step after the board to approve 26 billion shillings taken to put on a special several bank accounts in the business.
The board gave the resolution to be taken the money in the bank when there is the president's directive on banning in public institutions, public organizations, government departments, the agents and the ministry to put their money in the bank in business.
Those funds should zifunguliwe accounts in the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT).
Last Sunday morning, at the State House announced that Doctor Magufuli ameivunja the board of directors of TRA, and a few hours akateua Deputy Commissioner General.
At the State House without explaining the reasons, said that President Magufuli dismissed the appointment of the chairman of the board of directors of TRA, Bernard Mchomvu and to dissolve the whole board.
Moreover, together with to dissolve the board appointed Charles Kichere that Deputy Commissioner General of TRA, was to fill the position open for one year after the Doctor Magufuli to revoke the appointment of the former akishikilia that position Lusekelo Mwaseba.
"The appointment of another chairman of the board of directors of TRA and the board of the authority utatangazwa later," explained the State House that was released on Sunday morning.
According to the shajala of this year the TRA, members of the board in 2014 and which were waliteuliwa serving until the year 2017 and the areas that were working in brackets is when wakiteuliwa Shogholo Msangi (Assistant Commissioner of Finance, the Ministry of Finance), Khamis Omari (the secretary general, the Ministry of Finance, Zanzibar) and Doctor Philip Mpango (while the secretary general Planning Commission).
For now, Doctor Mpango is the minister of finance and planning.
Others are Professor Beno Ndullu (the Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania-BoT), Assaa Ahmad Rashid (secretary of the ministry of Constitution and Law Zanzibar), Josephat Kandege (Parliamentarian Kalambo - Rukwa), Doctor John Mduma (senior lecturer department of economic research and policy, the University of Dar es Salaam -Udsm), Doctor Nsubili Isaga, (the lecturer, the University of Mzumbe), and Rished Bade (while the Chief Commissioner TRA).
The secretary of the board was Juma Beleko (TRA).
Bade alitumbuliwa at that position.
Addressing the 31 graduation yesterday at the Open University of Tanzania (OUT) at the headquarters of the university, Bungo Kibaha district in Coastal region, Doctor Magufuli said aliitumbua the board due to violation of the procedures.
He explained that their action of approving the money put in different bank, is different from the instructions because the game that was done by various institutions and organizations.
"Now I don't know if the Huria University and you nyinyi mkiweka the development funds in the Fixed Deposit Account, (special account that) but that it has become the game, recently but we have found the amount of money that were 26 billion shillings have been issued by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) for the use of TRA, zikapelekwa at three bank as Fixed Deposit Account and the board of TRA ikapitisha, that is why those nilipozipata report, money nikachukua and the board for the best.
"Even for now the minister (of education Professor Joyce Ndalichako) is here, the Tanzania Education Authority (TEA), which was introduced by special reasons, inachangiwa money when there is money wameziweka at their Fixed Deposit Account, the minister's message is sent and Delivered," insisted President Magufuli.
He said there has been and the heads of various institutions to take the money and kuziwekwa in special accounts where the government is borrowing at high costs.
"For now, this is a game that unachezwa and causing the government lack funds, something that the government is not ready to see the misuse of its funds," explained Doctor Magufuli who has cut spending by emphasizing that the government and his disappointment with the violation of the regulations of the running of the government.
He said that this game has been ukiipa costly because of the government to borrow the money in the bank for a high cost and misleading the availability of revenue.
I "mtuombee continue removing because the country was in a place where they can call for forums even Europe and due to this tumbua revenue it has increased from 1.2 trillion and reached 1.8 where the economy has improved," explained Doctor Magufuli.
He said the economy has improved and you ukue to 7.2 percent, but until the quarter of this year has grown from 7.9 percent and that one of the countries that its economy is growing fast, which among the five countries has been the second after the Ivory Coast.
Moreover, he said the value of money and that risen wanaopotosha about the money is those who are who for now have no opportunity to deal.
A total of 4,027 graduates graduated with various degrees awarded by the head of the University of Huria retired Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda.


