Wabanwa boda boda

It has been written by Sophia Mwambe

Imechapishwa: 19 September 2016

Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Paul Makonda has officially launched a special program, aimed at improving the transport sector of known as Bodaboda together and rickshaws, who now watasajiliwa for their number, a special zitakazokuwa zimeandikwa in watakazokuwa wamevaa.

That program itafahamika as the new Mwonekano motorcycles and Bajaj Dar es Salaam.
Kicks, there will be no need of police kukimbizana and motorcycle rider and it will be easy to reduce the acts of crime.
Speaking during the launch that program, Makonda said it will help her passengers itatokea if any issue, someone will be able to use his mobile phone by inserting a special number, as of financial services and to the section of the service Bajaj and boda boda of Dar es Salaam, then incorporate the number that is in the draw of a driver.
Makonda said after incorporate the number, will be able to get the real name of the driver, the number of his motorcycle, analoegesha area, the leader of his area on the side of the motorcycle rider and its number of phone together with those of the leader.
Also motorcycle rider and all bajaj drivers in the region, they will have a draw which free special watagawiwa together with a cap difficult.
Said amekusudia improving the sector so that it can be together and avoid trouble believable wanaokumbana them those drivers.
He added that the launch of the program kutaepusha bughudha travel in especially between the drivers and the police, the state iliyojenga hostility.
"These improvements yamekusudia also wanting to remove completely wakamataji of motorcycles and rickshaws in Dar es Salaam," said and urged those drivers, following the law in place in order to avoid unnecessary accidents that can be avoided together with the mistake.
Ordered the police force traffic unit in the province, to increase the number of the police in all the road from today so as to ensure that the law zinafuatwa and respected equally.
In another step, Makonda has officially launched and the owners boda boda drivers Bajaj and in the province, where the action Nango and urge members to use it to kujitelea development.
Previously, the chairman of the organizing committee of Bajaj and boda boda in that province, Daud Laurian congratulated provincial head for the creativity and that the action itaiongezea great honor the transport sector which was ikitafsiriwa that is of crime and bad.
He said, motorcycle rider and rickshaws per district that is Temeke, Kinondoni, Ilala, Ubungo Kigamboni and will have their color of a draw together with their numbers.
He added that among other things, the new colorful has aimed to increase business opportunities in the transport, where one organization, the institution or litakalohitaji kubandika announcement in a cap difficult or pipiki will be forced to pay.
"But also, this sector now contributes greatly to the gross domestic product, where in the province of Dar es Salaam in the year can be able to bring in more than two billion shillings," said Laurian.
The launch was for the cooperation between the office of the governor of Dar es Salaam, the Surface and Marine Transport Authority (SUMATRA), Chotec Limited, the police force, Shell advance, Clouds FM, Event Master and attended by various leaders and drivers of motorcycle rider and rickshaws.


