
For this work hard, Lukuvi alone cannot, asaidiwe land sector in the country for now years inapitia in great changes, where his value tunaam biwa that inapanda every day.
There is a probability that is Wa Tanzania a few people know well about the real value of land, which in a big part haijapimwa since independence.
If you want to know the real value of land, try making investments in the private sector, you have, then you will see and without doubt utashangaa.
In urban and rural areas, these days is a land resources inayogombewa again in a big way, has been the cause and reason for conflicts and sometimes even deaths, people wameuana, others have received permanent physically disabled.
Unlike maybe during the previous ones, the current phase phase, land has been given a new view, tunamwona his minister, William Lukuvi and his assistant, Angelina Mabula went around every corner of the country wamegeuka watatuzi of conflicts.
Laiti ningepata the position of giving awards or a medal for the minister who did good work in the year 2016, there is no doubt Lukuvi angetuzwa first.
Ningemtuza, without doubt, and his assistants, although not all, for kudiriki say the truth that all the time tumeambiwa that unauma, to the extent that every a place alikopita Lukuvi has met with one type of the conflict or the problems of land.
I believe, Lukuvi anakesha, anawaza, is one of the assistants close to the President John Magufuli who no doubt hawapendwi.
Is an enemy of the land owners, including the leaders, which club limewaangukia, wanaumia, some of them wamenyang'anywa land, others need to waiendeleze, otherwise itakwenda and water!
The leaders, including the local government, the villages in the country will be hawampendi Lukuvi because of kuwazibia mirija, sit on their sources of income.
Hawapumui.
Who constructed in many areas in the city, including Dar es Salaam, in a few areas excluding yaliyopimwa leading to the leaders, have passed through hands michafu walafi in their areas.
I understand how walivyoshiriki in one way or another in the distribution of land plots or farms, which their owners are meeting by the conflict.
Others ninaoamini that hawampendi Lukuvi is madalali of plots and farms.
Some of them started a zimewasaidia in the pocket offices in their consumption, although their day zimefika at the end.
Some of them walidanganya customers who wanted to land use their different types.
Also, the experts, including land, urban planning officers before the arrival of Lukuvi bosses were, watching out was for these days and the small wamegeuka.
Some of them waliishi through the tricks, waliwaonea watafutao land or a certificate of ownership of plots, farms, documents which ziliwachukua many years to get these days, although the naambiwa tatizoi linatoweka.
As nilivyoeleza previously, the land sector, is known by the ministry, inasimamiwa many laws, has been with the conflict, conflicts since this country got independence 55 years ago.
Why land conflicts haikuisha?
That benefited a few, including the leaders, clever waliojua among scholars, the real value of the land, waliihodhi or by buying, to get them for free, later wakaiuza through local villages and executives, madalali, some of them now is big rich.
That wealth uliopatikana through the land, which tumeaminishwa that is the public property, unaumiza, umeacha behind many conflicts which I have been told that the lake region is leading in the country.
Both buyers of plots or farms for many years they have been hurt by, although now feel light.
Its results, the sector it seemed kichaka problems, the evil and the pain of many citizens, who wanted to invest in one way or another.
Land, it has a curse, tumeambiwa in an account of the religion that Kaini alimuua and bury his brothers, Abel ground ikalaaniwa until today and that a curse imewasumbua walimwengu many.
We are told that he those waliofuata kumletea God were better yields from the land in order wabarikiwe walidanganya, wakalaaniwa.
Many years later, which is a very sensitive land resources many kuwatesa has continued until today.
View, someone aliyewekeza in that sector in the brain will have a chance to live well, although on the side of the city, the value of the land inayogombewa has made a greater amount of causing deaths between farmers and breeders.
Ninajiuliza, our generation tunagombea land, tukauwana, hurting inayopungua, land, so, what our wajukuu tutawaachia children, the coming century?
The answer to your question nikuachie today, ninahisi is our responsibility all of us as the community start kuiangalia land for a new view than it is now.
Tunamuona Lukuvi anazurura anatembea, many in the whole country and solve the problems of land in urban and rural areas, tunadhani he does not work.
Ningemshauri Lukuvi, who my friend since that the modern tukikutana when building of the Youth Union (UV-CCM), along the roads of Morogoro, asiogope but achape work.
In that, Lukuvi who has informed standing with a leader, asilegeze, asimamie the sector for the new view, afikirie how to change some of the laws governing the sector.
Nishauri that the issue of getting the certificate for every land owner, plot or the farm in urban and rural areas, should be given a new view liharakishwe, if possible use a information easily available these days in public authorities, National Identity Cards Department (Nida), the National Electoral Commission (NEC) or Rita so as to enable all owners of land to get the certificate.
Systems for verifying the ownership of various levels uangaliwe afresh so as to enable her to land resources inayosaidia Wa Tanzania wajiendeleze, borrow the bank or financial institutions are believed to, not kukwazwa as it is now.
My advice is to be laws of the sector, removing bureaucracy and big positions for some people, including the leaders and officials of the sector, it needs the national debates.
I believe that the issue to prepare and to provide documents of plots or farms to happen Lands House or in the regional offices, zikasimiwe council to the agents of that authority to manage the availability of title deeds to help them get easily and generous in revenue collection by the government.
Hand in hand with that, the use of commercial land, the construction of the big buildings kunakofanywa with great speed in the country, we must also its laws ziangaliwe afresh to the land and the buildings for the council, meaning more with benefits for the country.


