
The permanent zarejea MRI Muhimbili

It has been written by Francisca Emmanuel

Imechapishwa: 18 September 2016

More than 52 patients have been given the MRI tests in Muhimbili National Hospital, since it to provide that service on September 14, this year.

The machine that was in the renovations for three weeks, it was revealed that the device called Gradient Module, kiliharibika, thus new kiliagizwa.
Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the head of the department of specializing in that hospital, Doctor Flora Lwakatare said, the machine is under the hospital in partnership with the company which huifanyia Philips repairs for their cost when inapoharibika.
He said the device kilichoharibika, kiliagizwa in Holland and technicians walibadilisha 31 battery that is for a long time and new scoring so as to increase the efficiency of the MRI machine "" located in has approximately nine years, therefore it must vibadilishwe equipment as it is in other machines.
Also, we are offering services to 40 patients a day and one person takes 40 minutes to get the answers, "" said Doctor Lwakatare.
He added that the MRI repairs hufanyiwa per year twice and ikikaa more than nine years, should be changed or other kununuliwa because vinakuwa equipment vimechakaa.
Also, he said, patients who are admitted hufanyiwa treatment this evening due to the congestion of find patients in the morning and afternoon.
He clarified that, the cost to patients who are referral hospital is shillings 210,000, with health insurance 300,000 shillings to shillings 450,000, private patients hutibiwa for shillings 460,000. "" MRI back again since August 24 this year, ilipoharibika as a result of electricity.
Technicians of Philips in conjunction with our technicians, walitafuta dangers and discovered.
We urge citizens' because zimerejea services and operates 24 hours, "" said.
Specialist doctor specializing, Mussa Ndukeki said, is used to measure MRI brain problems and the main and this one does not use radiation and said the person who his body in steel, he cannot use that machine sumaku because it has that can party that metal "" MRI and CT-Scan hupima all any disease in the body but it depends where you are.
CT-Scan hupima more lung and uses radiation.
But out of 10 patients wanaowekwa at the MRI machine, four huacha treatment reason for fear, "" said Doctor Ndukeki.


