
Parents wahofia the safety of their children in to dormitories and obligations

Wameingiwa parents worried about the safety of their children who wamesharipoti in the school dormitories at this time of the teachers' strike unapoingia the fourth day.
Through the Party of parents in the country, parents KNAP wanaitaka the government ensures that those students who arrived at the high school dormitories and others as required.
The secretary general of the party, Mister Ndunda Musau, said parents have great fear that may the children in the school at this time when there is no wakakumbwa teachers, and the effects of every kind if the government haitawajibika and give enough protection.
Ministry of Education "Tunaihimiza iharakishe and to conduct inspections in all schools upili dormitories so as to ensure that the head teachers are.
Is this niia which itawahakikishia our children security, Mister "said Ndunda when he spoke to the nation today on the phone yesterday.
Parents also walihofia may students who are in school activities in their own they movements isiyofaa ethically.
Miss Evelyne Magige, who is a parent of a student at the school girls upili Ahero. is one of the parents who waliitaka the government to every iwezalo to protect the students who are in the school dormitories and who hawajarudishwa at home.
"Natumai that this strike would end quickly because my daughter nilimpeleka in boarding school.
I don't have now who is sure anayemtunza in school or if he is in safe hands or not, "said.
On his part, Miss Patricia Oduor says hakumpeleka her daughter in school yesterday because of fear for his safety.
"Ninahisi that he will not be safe in school without having enough supervision from teachers.
I decided that to continue to sit at home until yatakapokuwa things calm and teachers to finish their strike, "said yesterday when he spoke to the nation today.
Parents said they also wanahofishwa and the style of teachers and officials of the teachers who are at parties, who enter the strike to evict them in schools and students and teachers strike waliokaidi and who are continuing with studies.


