
The problem of electricity is distribution and Valentine OBARA HATUA government to launch the project utakaoongeza 140 megawatts of electricity to power of the country that are supposed to be, although it is not enough kuhakikishia citizens better service the distribution of the strength of electricity.
The services of electricity distribution H managed by the company in Kenya Power is one of those yanayohangaisha contributed a lot more people and investors.
Most of the time we have witnessed many malalamishi from investors about the high cost of the strengths of electricity, a situation that huwapelekea increasing the cost of products otherwise they can be losses in their businesses.
At the same time, the citizens who use electricity manyumbani them have been witnessing the power of the disappearance of electricity from time to time.
This situation does most of remaining and questions about as true race we're in competition and developed countries, because Kenya haistahili witness this in the 21st century.
The sector is among the most important ones in the efforts kubingirisha the development agenda in the country and lift the state of life for the citizens.
Therefore, action is needed most kuhakikzichukuliwe in that, although it is not enough to improve the delivery of services.
An increase in the level of the strength of the only kinachozalishwa electricity is not enough, because the former are still ways those are the ones that zitakazotumiwa supplying electricity.
Is it is a condition for the Kenya Power to invest in the equipment of modern technology if we want to see change in service provision.
It is a shame that in this days, the residents of various streets of the main city in Nairobi, Kenya linaloheshimika international a lot, is forced to live in the dark without the strength of electricity by more than 24 hours for that there was a heavy downpour.
Iliyoje shame!
As the situation is so in the main city, you can ukatanabahi how it is in the areas of farms especially in areas where the rains is part of the life of every day.
As, there will be a wise thing that can supply equipment kustahimili air in a bad state, especially in the rain.
It should be remembered that the government has been underway for several years now to increase the number of people wanaounganishiwa the strength of electricity on the farms, although there is a high Stima from time to time.
There will be no benefits as the government itapatia electricity production more weight and forget to improve methods of distribution of the service.
Those issues two hutegemeana and therefore yanastahili kushughulikiwa together.
There have been as analysts of economic issues which hupendekeza empowered the existence of the electricity distribution company which will give another competition in Kenya Power.
In any business whatsoever, the competition lead to the company to try to more in the provision of services to customers.
A good example seems to open the phone in the telecommunications sector where the existence of many companies of providing those services, has contributed a lot to enable the customers choosing for themselves which feel company zinawafaa more.
Itahitajika washikadau wawazie all over the issue of better services in the electricity distribution, otherwise the efforts to increase the level of electricity kinachozalishwa sworn into office will not be beneficial to the citizens.


