
Cord yatisha to demonstrate and Mike Kalama celebrations of Cord umetisha prepare a peaceful demonstrations across the country in order to protest against the government of paying debts yanayohusishwa and the scandal Anglo Leasing while President Uhuru Kenyatta insisting that Kenya didn't have to but to pay the salary package Sh1.4 billion shillings.
One day after President Kenyatta ordered them the Ministry of Finance ilipe that debt, the leaders of the opposition union came out wakiilaani that step while wakitisha "to take action across all defending the constitution together with the public interest".
Acting leader of the union, Professor Anyang "Nyong'o together with the deputy leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Mister Cord said that not hesitate to go to court, or to hold demonstrations across the country to protest against those payments which waliyataja as yanayokiuka constitution.
"Contracts of Anglo Leasing was and never illegal haifai kutimizwa.
The international community husisitiza about accountability and never cannot kuishinikiza Kenya itimize contracts which iligubikwa and "cheating, said Professor Nyong'o.
"Demonstration of peace is the right of every mkenya, that is one step that we can take.
What he'll do it again if the government refused to listen to his people, Mister "added Musyoka.
Those two others who were have protested and other leaders of the union, said that the move is a big a blow in the efforts to fight and corruption in the country.
Professor Nyong'o said that President Kenyatta during the 2006 alipendekeza that the debts Anglo Leasing yasilipwe when he was the chairman of the committee scrutinizing the government accounts.
But President Kenyatta at the State House in Nairobi said that although his stand haujabadilika and that previously, has been forced to ordering the money zilipwe because Kenya haingeweza asking for money to fund the projects.
"Ningali nasimama and my statement the previously but now as the leader of the country, these nimelazimika paying debts after Kenya lost the case in foreign countries.
Ninaishinikiza rights department to ensure that hatushindwi again in these cases as evidence, most of which is "said President Kenyatta.
The Transparency International and also lilikashifu those payments which liliyataja as to compensate "wafisadi and kuwapora" Kenyans.
The executive director of the organization, Mister President Kenyatta awafichue Samuel Kimeu wanted the perpetrators of the scandal before those payments to be done.
About the steps of President Kenyatta more to the commissioners from Wajir, a union of Cord uliitaja as opposed to the constitution while Mister President Kalonzo saying hapaswi make kuo alone but is a parliamentary authority of passing kuugeuza laws that administration who uliondolewa and the new constitution.
"Returned to the administration of the region through the door behind violates the constitution and tutatumia legal way kuubatilisha, Mister'o Nyong" said.
Akiwajibu, President Kenyatta said that he followed the constitution fully in those changes.


