
The farms harvest yafaa taken off ziletwazo effects of lack of meal last season produce coalition was full of events while some of the areas harvest whenever they make other kwelikweli while yakiambulia patupu.
This situation was due to the changes in weather due to several things the contribution of these changes as the destruction of the environment due to careless cutting of trees, the delivery of gas dangerous from industries.
First of all some of the areas yalishuhudia rain in numbers which poured during the harvesting and this situation ilitatiza harvesting and contribute a lot of food on kikiharibikia.
Other areas hayakupokea rain completely so plants ilikauka just soon after kuchipuka.
Department of the weather advertisement that gave kungekuwa and the risk of food shortage in the areas of Africa and the Asian continent is some of those yaliyotajwa.
When I take this opportunity to give wosia for all who succeeded in getting anything.
This is not the time for thinking of the things to sell their harvest.
MBURU Samuel, the Eurobond saga is not a joke of aiding ASEMAVYO CORD about bond Eurobond saga kusichukuliwe for only jokes.
As the leader of the opposition, responsibility is kuikosoa kuiangalia and the ruling government.
The issue of corruption has become a song this country.
Twaweza said Mister Raila is only blame anaelekezea the government the honorable Kenyatta but he is sure of whether asemavyo.
The government yapaswa to listen to and to consider her a saying that because ameshawataja some of the saga.
Chuka University.
Kisii University kitii CUE order issued by the commission of the universities in the country (CUE) is not being taken kimzaha and any institution inayopeana higher training in various sectors for the resolution of conflicts uzuiwe social government iwajali our youth stereotype in many countries in Africa see corruption causes the poor country to here in the moment.
Right maajuzi many youths wamenukuliwa claiming that they cannot stop and kujisitili without corruption.
Limeewaacha something that surprised many.
For now, this is the mwazo kuzuiia young people with poor vision here in the country and kudidimia led to the economy of the nation.
Claims they have these boys because many of them claimed that everyone is therefore even us Twaweza concerned.
The government ilipojitolea kuangamiza illegal alcohol, most of the beneficiaries were haswaa youths.
It is the responsibility of the government to explain how the allocation of public finances ulivyoendeshwa and projects handled.
GIDRAPH KIMC Mwangi, Nairobi scholars.
Ten Mabewa University of kisii yalioagizwa closed and the commission have every reason to follow the directive.
Lack of enough resources and infrastructures dhabiti is one of the challenges zinazokumba ibuka universities kudorora and contribute to the level of education in the country.
My command for the commission is that izidishe thorough investigation for the disaster every war between different communities in the country have continued to kuangamiza citizens who are not guilty.
The conflict that are derived from the ownership of resources has continued excessive every uchao.
Efforts to bring these classes together have been harder zisizozaa fruits.
Kelvin Kihara Njoki, Thika ibuka so as to ensure that our scholars kiwangu lessons they are given the above.
GIDRAPH KIMC Mwangi, Nairobi chap chap is empty words?
In every event there are those wanaofaidi and something and others kulamba remains in empty hands.
In the Development caused chap chap that benefited from the various projects are Mutua campaigning upatu.
However, there is a voice of the citizens that zinapinga the leadership of Governor Mutua.
Some of the locals wanaohisi that the style of the daily performance Development chap chap is the one of the words without actions.
Veronica MUTISYA John KIRAGU, the University of Chuka Heko judges udisadi tackling corruption inside here in the country has been chronic issue because they are linalozungumziwa every uchao umeangamiza this country and also Kenyans.
Police unit is some vilivyoathirika units and this issue.
Another report was published in the Nation newspaper iliashiria that the traffic police unit kinachukua bribe of three hundred thousand per day.
I am taking this opportunity grateful mahakimu board of judges and for the other day against the judges and that mahakimu saga of corruption and lack of rights.
MWANAMAONI obligations, Nairobi


