
Usia youths WANGU in Mbeya City

Rashid Mkwinda

Usia youths WANGU in Mbeya City

Vodacom Premier League have ended, Mbeya City team that imejizolea the popularity of its kind in this league, have ended as imeshika the third position behind Azam FC and all Yanga of Dar es Salaam.

It is clear that this league has had a unique challenges for the new team especially Mbeya City that apart from be new in this league but has sparked new feelings of inspiration from fans who previously before the rise of that team, many of them were inspiration to have focused on the sidelines of the political issues.

Soccer history in Mbeya cannot be completed without kuzitaja which zimewahi team do well in that league in the country like, Tukuyu Stars, Mecco, Tiger and Prison who at different times zilikuwemo in that league and inspiring of the soccer game in Mbeya Province.

In this league season under Coach Juma Mwambusi Mbeya City has been able to release kugangamala and on the old team in the league and showing a way of hope of doing well in this league as it was with their brother Tukuyu Stars which for the first time ilipanda bridge in 1986 and that year that cup to take.

It was the history of kutumainiwa for the new generation of soccer in the country by the year 1986 where under the sponsorship Ramnik Patel (brother) the Tukuyu Stars team, which was known by the nickname "" Banyambala "" was able to climb the bridge and winning and to illustrate the wonders of the provinces teams kuzichachafya teams of Dar es Salaam.
So as to keep good soccer history in Mbeya is well nikakitaja the Tukuyu Stars squad which kilivunja taboo and kuiweka Mbeya in the map of soccer in the country after winning the Cup champions and managed to participate in the African continent and East African champions 1987 and be able to from a draw of 1-1 and tough team of AFC of Kampala, which was previously known by the name Abaluya.

Players in the squad who have formed the Tukuyu Stars under Coach Athuman Juma, were the goalkeeper led to Mbwana Makata, the central defenders Chimwaga Ali and Daniel Chundu Walinzi, the winger Godwin Aswile, Suleiman Mathew and Aston Pardon (the late).

Links of defense Yusuf Kamba and Peter Mwakibibi, attacking player, Richard Lumumba (the late) and Kevin Haule, the Viungo aside, Karabi Mrisho and Suleiman Mwankenja.

After appearing to do well in that league that team iliimarisha more his registration to the previous year and increase skilled players like the Asanga Aswile, Ali Mrisho, Salum Kabunda, Justin Mtekele (the late), the goalkeeper Joshua Kilale, Salum Kussi, Michael Kidilu, Jimmy Mored and Steven Mussa (the late).

Along with that success, Tukuyu Stars ilikumbana and many challenges of his players to a team of Yanga and Simba, where the team ilishuhudia skilled players like the Godwin Aswile, Suleiman Mathew, Salum Kabunda, Steven Mussa and wakihama others that team.

It should be remembered that Tukuyu Stars was mwiba painful to Yanga team that during that time ilipofanikiwa climbing premier league and took the team Yanga ilishindwa outplaying those guests where for two games took place and the team by 1-0 iliyochdezwa match in Mbeya and 2-1 in the return leg match in Dar es Salaam.

Due to the history of Tukuyu Stars that dropped the bridge in the year 2008 as under the current coach of Mbeya City Juma Mwambusi, there are issues which is supposed to consider kujihakikishia that inadumu in the arena of the premier league for many years to come and even winning.

Together with the success iliyoonesha Mbeya City in the league season that ended yesterday, there are many limitations which yanapaswa kuiweka and worked on the team in the success of the league next season.

In a total 26 matches he played the Mbeya City team won 13 matches coming from a draw 10 matches lost 3 matches, has been closed down a total of 32 goals and scored 21 goals and have a total of 49 points ikishikilia the position of 3 in the league standings.

Until the first round company, ends the team as it was with the team champions of this league season Azam was never lost the game even one.

In the second round of the team in the league that began like drunk ikajikuta reputation ikipoteza three matches, which was closed and Yanga in the first round, and from kugangamala have drawn, ikafungwa and Coastal Union in Tanga and later lost an important championship match kutumainiwa iliyowapa Azam at the home of Sokoine.

There are a lot violence that erupted in that match, including'ono rumors iliyoibuka even before the match that Mbeya City imeiuza that match and that the situation is, it is a must for Azam case it wins it that match and kujihakikishia the championship before the end of the league.

As the first rumors zilivyokuwa Mbeya City got into the field and low levels of playing with his strikers unable kulisogelea at Azam and causing throughout the period of the first half ukichezwa football stadium.

Is a few times Mbeya City players were seen kulikaribia at Azam, a situation that some of the fans started kuingiwa worried that maybe the team can be shut down and Azam where one minute before going to rest a player Gaudence Mwaikimba of Azam managed to write the leading goal for his team.

The second period began to be seen life in Mbeya City, the instructions of the teacher hopes to show it started in the team hopes to return to the fans and finally 70 minutes of Mbeya City player Mwagane Yeya managed by equalizing goal for tiktaka.

The expectations of doing well in the squad and it started in the mistakes of the referee for the match Nathan Lazaro of Kilimanjaro aliyedaiwa kuibeba Azam being assisted by vibendera holders completed his Abdallah Uhako and Godfrey Kihwili all from in Arusha.

The results of that game violence states to the fans even some players abused seemed referee, however, there are a lot of things to learn in that team from the entire flow of that league and how ilivyomalizika.

There are the blame directly that Mbeya City was not supposed to kuzikwepa, kujisahau after seeing has started to gain popularity, played under the level and to give Azam and victory to win before the end of the league.

Mbeya City haijavunja still record set by their brother of Tukuyu Stars, is supposed to establish alternative strategies to honor the squad of strengthening the efforts of the soccer stakeholders of Mbeya Region and elsewhere, who in one way or another were wakiitakia that team success in status and property.

As a soccer stakeholder and sports journalist sitaacha these kuyasema so as to be the catalyst for development of this club which apart from regaining inspiration of soccer in Mbeya helped to increase the economic opportunities for residents of the city where apart from the entries vinavyopatikana milangoni, many visitors from the neighboring provinces, comes to cheer the team.

Mbeya City watangulizi ijifunze is supposed to be his which until now seem to be sluggish in this league, it should be remembered also Prison team running in this league a long time dropped the bridge in the year 2011 under the coach who is now the coach of Mbeya City Juma Mwambusi.

Until now is still continuing kupumulia a machine for every kunusurika relegation season where for this season almanusura ishuke bridge where it finished in the league with a total of 28 points with a total of 26 games and lost a total of 25 goals while having won the match 6 and providing a draw 10 matches and lost 10 matches.

Mbeya City team, owned by the City Council of Mbeya where has climbed the bridge this league season.

The Mbeya City kiliongozwa and the coach Juma Mwambusi with players David Burhani / Geoffrey Julius, Hassan Mwasapili / Mohamed Kijuso, Hamad Kibobile, Yusuf Abdallah, Yohana Morris, Christian Sembuli, Hamid Mohamed, Kenny Ally, Saad Kipanga, Mwagane Yeya, Deus Kaseke, Aziz Sibo, Antony Matogolo, Yusuf Wilson, Francis Castor and Jeremiah John.


