Minister: There is a shortage of vaccines

It has been written by Angela Semaya, Dodoma

Imechapishwa: 16th September 2016

The government has confessed the existence of a shortage of some vaccines in some of the health service centers.

The minister of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Ummy Mwalimu said that today when speaking with the press in Dodoma vaccine about the state of the country.
He mentioned that the vaccines zilizopungua that is in order to prevent the disease surua and rubella (Mr), from tuberculosis (BCG), polio (OPV) and pepopunda (TT).
According to the vaccinations Ummy, is used for the sake of children from the time that they are born to two years and pregnant women, depending on the direction of vaccines, that was given by the ministry to kuwakinga and those diseases.
Has said, in order to deal with the shortage, ministries imekwishanunua and is expected to receive two million doses of vaccine polio zitakazowasili September 19, this year, the vaccination pepopunda dose 1, 240 itakayowasili, September 26, this year and tuberculosis vaccine to prevent the amount of two million doses zitakazowasili September 28, this year.
Said the vaccinations quick zitakapowasili, will be distributed throughout the country by using the Medical Unit (MSD).
He mentioned that don't have the vaccine shortage that is vaccinations to prevent the disease, pneumonia vaccine to prevent diarrhea (Rotarix) and vaccines inayokinga dondakoo diseases, kifaduro, the fever ini and declared the main and continue to be released as usual in health centers in the country.
Minister Ummy said previously iliipa treasury ministry 1.6 billion shillings for the purpose of vaccinations in the past three months, which is the Treasury are expected to reach but has again 6.1 billion shillings for the purchase of vaccines and other surua rubella and they are expected to kutumwa and the International Organization of United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), who are both buyers of those vaccine on behalf of the government of Tanzania.
In this financial year, the government has allocated 60 billion shillings for the purpose of those vaccine.
He said despite the lack of vaccines, there are some of the same type vaccine district when there are not many other district.
Physicians wanted the heads of all the provinces, to verify the data and district vaccine kuzitawanya for the region to ensure that the existing vaccine get stations.
He has urged the citizens, especially the parents and guardians of children with the age of getting the vaccine, watakapopata information on the presence of zilizokosekana taking vaccine once children who they did not get or not completed according to the vaccination schedule in order to complete their vaccination.
Similarly to the injured who went at the centers and lack of vaccines, they go to sufficiently stations near their vaccination wakapate walivyoandikiwa and according to doctors.
Has assured the citizens that health services including vaccines, are going to be provided in and are offered for free, they can continue to use those services at all times, because the vaccine is the fundamental rights of every child.


