
The project of employment need more amendments last year in Kenya Employers Federation (FKE) lililalama that most of the students who graduate from the degree degree in universities can't work that were trained professionals wanapoajiriwa.
In a period of two months to come more than 30,000 youths who have graduated from the level of degree and hawajafanikiwa get jobs will be and the reason kutabasamu because the government itawapatia an opportunity to get needed tajriba depending on the skills they studied.
This is the trials, a project run by the President for five years in an effort to enable the youth to get job opportunities that these days and Leonard ONYANGO is inadequate and even to maintain compatibility nationally.
Likewise, many of them watatumwa kufunza in primary schools all over the country, where they will be receiving a sum of Sh6,000 every month.
Although this plan has a good intentions of youth to prepare for the purpose of the job market and even to make the young people to be patriotic, there is a lot to be done to ensure that yanastahili which is successful.
First, it is something lisilofaa for someone to degree level of primary school students because he does not have any training about how he is able more kutangamana and those children and that is why the teachers of primary and secondary schools to get training in different colleges.
Despite having the number of teachers itaongezeka in primary schools, there will be no quality of education unaohitajika.
These teachers walifaa taken to secondary schools because they are faced with a shortage of teachers.
Kufunza opportunities for volunteering to primary schools under the plan, the new government is it good released the Kenyans who have graduated from the education of the universities that are providing training for teaching primary schools (TTC).
There are many youths who have graduated from second payment, which the yamependekezwa Sh6,000 is very little hayatoshi those teachers who have volunteered subsistence life.
Most of the students who have graduated university funding got from the board of providing Masomo Loans (Helb).
So, those funds zinatosha pay houses, pay Helb and buy other needs of basically subsistence life, especially at this time when the cost of living has climbed?
That amount kinafaa an increase in order to give them motivation these youths aged 22 and who would like to get 30 tajriba under this plan, the new


