
Imechapishwa: Wed, APR 26th, 2017

Why Nape not WANGU SHUJAA

Tags

Everyone will reap an alichokipanda.
This is saying that the Swahili tumebahatika that are our language them in Swahili.

This means that if ulipanda utavuna good and good then as ulipanda sadly usitarajie utavuna, then that is good but the wrong things.

Therefore it is for the former Minister of Information who ministers was revoked in March this year and President John Magufuli.

Personally simsikitikii Nape though by other people appeared as Heroine and seems as someone qualified bullied mercy, but to me it's not Heroine siungani and simsikitikii them and even a bit because every person and he will reap an alichokipanda anavuna alichopanda.

Since his accomplishments utenguliwe, Nape seems like someone who has a mass of ideas and you can score so as unafuatilia social media especially the Twitter network.

Seems mabandiko placing various with on how to show alikipigania his party and some of the problems of the Tanzania aliyoyaona which is not visible from the be resolved, as a certain style of stone throwing kizani akitegemea anyone who likimpata then you will sound.

Why me Nape not Heroine

Heroine can be his soul or by his position but not for Wa Tanzania, I am saying this because since the beginning in the saga of drugs, after being mentioned that the first phase of the list of retailers and users of maadwa then nilipoiona war of two bulls which later ilikuja kuchagizwa and the incident of raided television and radio station in the Clouds.

Is a fight which got people they were seen as the umbrella of upiganiaji of rights but there was a private issues, true story nimuite Nape Heroine said "" brand of people especially zilindwe artists when he himself is accused of "polluting" brand of; people refer the statement of the prime minister, Edward Lowassa about old people rotating and money for the party, which I have is sufficient kumchafua alone find him as Heroine.

Why simsikitikii Nape

Who between us who he likes to see someone akilipwa usioendana salary and the work he had done?
We all of us we would like the rights and for justice to prevail, every person is required to get the work he had done.
If it is therefore do what reasons, we have the kumhurumia Nape?

Nape this statement of this former and kibabe when parliament wanatuzimia "live, this" aliyepeleka this bill kibabe news and on this, Nape boasting this former and boasting against Wa Tanzania who were wakilalamika on his statement that are even to hand goal again akiisema publicly passport and any fear, this is the tumhurumie?

This is the tumuite Heroine?
Surface akifuga you then yakaja killing him because tutamuita Heroine alipambana so much during his soul anatetea before mauti, found dies and tulie and kumhurumia?

The problem of Tanzania, we have been very wasahaulifu and that is all the years we have been bridges of our politicians, while the state of the economy continues to be in a bad disease, usahaulifu is very bad.

Many politicians who are usually and especially the leadership positions forget themselves and to see if those positions are usually ziliandikwa permanent and their names and wanasahau that up to that level, there are went up which normally high when there is no place to go again ushuke must, therefore nawaasa to respect the citizens regardless of uliyonayo position.

Right who served thinking as Lowassa and Sumaye can complaining about the soldiers as alivyowahi complaining the former secretary general of the Party for Democracy and Development (Chadema), Doctor.
Wilbrod Slaa?
Power hayadumu msijisahau.


