
6 wanaswa and weapons for indigenous Physician

It has been written by Nashon Kennedy, Mwanza

Imechapishwa: 21 October 2016

Police in Mwanza imewakamata six people with two weapons indigenous made, they were using the in criminal incidents'anyi and looting of property, reserved for indigenous Physician losers.

The Police Commander of Mwanza region, Ahmed Msangi said yesterday that those people have been arrested on October 18, this year at one o'clock in the afternoon, after the police at the patrol, the county of Buswelu, Buswelu Ilemela Municipality, waliwakamata those people after receiving information from good citizens about the presence of those criminals.
At the initial stages, the police they arrested him Jeremia Mkumbo (25), a resident of Malega Singida province.
"Alipohojiwa admitted involvement in crime incidents and mentioning other people who were wakishirikiana.Alisema weapons that use in crime waliziacha for indigenous doctor called Leonard Litta, a resident of the neighborhood of Kagida- Buswelu," clarified commander Msangi.
He said the police went home for the doctor indigenous, Leonard Litta (39) and after inspecting a home there, walikamata shot 22 gun used by the type of gun Short.
He said after being questioned by police, the suspects waliwataja four other people who were partnering in crime who have been arrested.
He mentioned the people who were arrested that is Kamugisha Jovin (40) and a resident of defender Iloganzala, Juma Yusuph (35), a resident of Bwani -Kinondoni, Samuel Peter (36), a resident of Buswelu and Shaban Hussein (26) the shoes and a resident of Nyasaka Mozambique in Ilemela Municipality.
"Walipofanyiwa an interview admitted that that all the suspects to educate these weapons in'anyi of criminal property and looting in areas of the city and our region of Mwanza," explained and added that the police and the investigation is continuing about the incident and other which and when the investigation will be completed will appear in court.
In another incident, Commander Msangi said imewakamata police two Dar es Salaam residents who were found with the car theft.
He said the accused were arrested on October 18, this year, two o'clock in the afternoon Ilemela area Ilemela Municipality, while in the process of selling a vehicle with registration number T.778 AZV Toyota Land CRUISER, walilokuwa wameliiba for the businessman Kiasia, Dar es Salaam.
Arrested named as Rahim Feka (28), a resident of Ilala and Ally Kawale (32) a resident of Jet Lumo- Airport.
He added that the suspects, arrested after police received reports of stolen by the car from in Dar es Salaam.
"After getting information from Dar es Salaam tulihisi, there is a possibility of this network of the theft of vehicles to the existence of the provinces of the Lake Region and after doing the investigation tulifanikiwa arrest those suspects," said commander Msangi and added that all the suspects are under police for questioning more.
He said the police in Mwanza inawasiliana and their colleagues of Dar es Salaam, to transport procedures of those suspects.


