
Doctor.
Possi aipongeza UNESCO reduction of violence against albinos deputy minister (the Office of the Prime Minister), policy, parliament, labor, employment, youth and disabled, Doctor.
Abdallah Possi has commended the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) for helping to educate citizens about people with albinism in addition to evaluate the way the citizens they and understanding about those people.
Doctor.
Possi made the remarks at the meeting to explain an evaluation that has been done by UNESCO to the citizens of that evaluation four district took place and said that it is a good idea to show which have helped the situation is what it is and the ways in which the government can use that to end the acts of violence on people with albinism.
"People with albinism have been suffering from a long period, wanakosa the opportunity to study, doing business with many things yanawakabili, the people of the organizations that is not the solution is the community itself, many people don't have enough education about albinism," step to reach people with albinism Waishi equivalent to other people and the government has been doing the efforts to end those actions, but the community to recognize this is not the responsibility of the government alone is important everyone akashiriki kuvitokomeza acts of violence, UNESCO imetuonyesha a way of enabling the government to achieve his intention, "said Doctor.
Possi.
The head of the office and the representative of UNESCO in the country, Zulmira Rodrigues speaking briefly before welcoming the guest of honor deputy minister in the office of the prime minister, policy, coordination, parliament, labor, employment and the disabled Honorable.
Doctor Abdallah Possi gives a speech at the meeting of UNESCO unaoangalia evaluation of people with albinism held today at the Protea Courtyard in Dar es Salaam.
On the side of UNESCO, through the head of office and the representative of UNESCO in the country, Zulmira Rodrigues said UNESCO imnatambua every human has the right to live as other human beings and through their research who uliambatana and providing education they believe that it is time the community to cooperate in order to end acts of brutal for Tanzania Albino Society.
"UNESCO has decided to be so much and this issue and to try to provide education to the community, we've started working on this issue for Tanzania Albino Society and the brutal attacks which they are meeting with the reasons of faith witchcraft which is contrary to human rights, this research" kusidia you will be able to end the acts of brutal for people with albinism, everyone has the right to it and that is the which UNESCO inalisimamia, and in this to everyone in the community for his position has a responsibility to participate in these actions, it is a must to partner with this issue, "said Rodrigues.
That evaluation took place in four district which is Misungwi and Sengerema in Mwanza, located in Shinyanga and Bariadi Msalala Simiyu region.


