
Right Yanga WALIMNUNUA where Emmanuel Okwi?
Do WALITAPELIWA?

During the premier league player as a great value more, Ugandan Emmanuel Okwi has been one of the viewers with a great value.
So, Yanga 'reported mkenge' in his registration?.
This can be a question that his answers are clear.
First, Okwi is the player Etoile du Salehe of Tunisia who walimnunua from Simba team.

Why is Yanga?.
Was playing a team of SC Villa of his home in Uganda for a loan agreement of six months from Etoile.
Narudia again, he was playing Villa on loan.
FIFA ilimruhusu Okwi playing Villa for a period when the Ugandan three case zinazomuhusu zikitafutiwa mhuafaka.
Okwi on his side is claiming that those Watunisia walivunja a contract for being unable to pay her money as ilivyotakiwa.
Simba and they allege their payments from Etoile.

Okwi aliruhusiwa playing for Villa so as to protect his level, and he did not anayemilikiwa player and the team.
He was blocked to play for the national team of Uganda in the ongoing tournament of African nations for players of the internal league, CHAN, because he was Villa on loan from a team'ambo.
Though, is Villa yes wanaosemekana selling Okwi for Yanga team.
For what authority?.
Until here Yanga will be wameliwa.
Because Okwi is the player Etoile not Villa.

Yanga wamemsaini Okwi while wakijiaminisha that they are correct.
Believe Okwi is a free agent or of Villa.
Though, was supposed to play Villa for six months, but only two akaitumikia isiyozidi months and kununuliwa.
CAF, the Confederation of African Football wamemuhidhinisha Okwi to play for Yanga.
The committee of the law and the status of players imemzuia its use till when they get clarification from FIFA, the world soccer.
Yes, they are correct for that FIFA, is the waliosema the player acheze Villa for six months during his case zikishughulikiwa.

FIFA, they can allow Okwi to play for Yanga maslai of his talent.
Though, can also blocking watajua that if this player has violated the previously their instructions which walimwambia acheze Villa.
It is possible that player akaonekana tapeli, for kuwaadaa Yanga while knowing attended his contract is Etoile.
There are players like this war that won the Okwi, but there are also those who vifungo in the FIFA.

Perhaps Yanga wakamtumia Okwi the future, but for now is the legality of the player.
As, will continue to hold Etoile their position that they do not know their player, a place where he is, Okwi ataoneka is Mtoro.
If, Okwi, will be viewed legal his claims can be paid compensation and Etoile, but where is the scandal where Villa got a permit to sell Okwi for Yanga team?

Udai each side has its lawyers.
Duh!.
But the lawyer of Okwi can be mjanja more mental, with more, to be able to get signed by Yanga millions of travelers for his comments while campaigning for his client that she has no problem.
If the law was put in order to ivunjwe, and if the contracts all day can kutenguliwa, Yanga watamtumia Okwi, but we should not her surprise FIFA, saying that player Etoile property.
Yanga walimnunua where Emmanuel Okwi?
Maybe this is there is a primary arguments.


