We tunachotaka is only to remove the CCM "Aug 19, 2015

As I had promised in the last article, this week I continue with my analysis about the general election that is expected to take place on October 25 this year.
And if it was in several articles previous ones, my analysis'anyiro the utaelemea at the presidential position.
While in the last article nilijadili opportunities and for two "candidates" heads, that is Doctor.
John Magufuli of CCM and Edward Lowassa of Chadema / UKAWA, this week nitaingia in detail, while more with the aim to use this article did research for one candidate, and the next week itamwangalia another candidate.
I should start by Lowassa of Chadema / UKAWA.
Between the last article, and this is not the secret information is one that governs what is called the Lowassa "" floods.
All operations zilizomhusisha that politician in that period kimeandamana and a huge crowd of people, from alipochukua forms to vie for the presidency in Dar es Salaam to in the meeting being introduced in Mbeya, Arusha and Mwanza.
Numbers of people who are coming out to activity zinazomhusu Lowassa, be it on to demonstrate or to attend the meetings, kumewapa high hopes his followers that the way to the former Prime Minister of the State House is white.
In line with the huge attendance, wamehama several members of the ruling party to join the Chadema.
But bigger is hoping to some of the leaders who were with the names "" inside CCM.
That demonstrations and meetings of Lowaasa inajaza many people that it doesn't have a debate.
That yajayo incidents of people to fill the politician will also not the issue of the debate.
Likewise, that there is more leaders and members of CCM watamfuata Lowassa in Chadema is also something is expected.
Tusichoweza conclude for sure this time is hamahama if that some of the members of-CCM and their leaders follow Chadema Lowaasa there will be able to be interpreted victory in the general elections in October 25, approximately two months from now.
Despite the presence of a big inspiration about to register in the voters register lililoboreshwa and technology to preserve the record on a computer (Biometric Voter register briefly BVR), until this time the National Electoral Commission has not the exact number of people who registered.
But despite that, already there are signs of errors in terms of BVR where several reports have the kutoyaona while doing their names who registered.
UDOGO or the size of the errors are still haujafahamika because the National Electoral Commission (NEC) haijalitolea clarification that issue.
Nitaunganisha those issues in the two above, that is a large number of people who are coming out in the activities of Lowassa and an exercise to register BVR.
Am challenged to conclude that so that the numbers of people who are coming out in the activities of the politician more beneficial to him and his party in general, then, the first of those people most, if not all, they must be wamejiandikisha voting.
Without so their numbers utabaki that only history.
But for many that we have experience, voter registrations is one issue, managed to vote is another issue, and vote for a certain candidate and the vote to help his victory in another issue is completely.
Nimeshazungumzia in my articles previous ones that one of the great benefits to the CCM is the privileged relationship between him and various institutions of the public.
And many ninatarajia your you readers brothers mkisikia cries of the opposition politicians since the start of the approximately system of many parties that their votes wanaohisi zinahujumiwa and the ruling party to supported and public institutions "zinazokipendelea" the party.
Though all the time those accusations have continued to remain only allegations, the evidence of unaelekea environmental kuzisapoti those allegations.
Personally, I have been nikifuatilia pilika general elections through the internet, especially on social networks (Social media).
Recently, niliwatahadharisha fans of Lowassa about their joy wing derived from the audience in public activities zinazomhusu that politician.
Niliwakumbusha about the previous elections, especially "the speed of (Augustine Lyatonga) Mrema", former presidential candidate in the general election in 1995 through the NCCR party, how he used to popular and filling the crowd of people at his rallies, but ended up kubwagwa and the candidate of CCM, Benjamin Mkapa.
Niliwakumbusha also about the numbers of people who were present at the Doctor campaign meetings.
Willibrord Slaa, the former presidential candidate on the ticket of Chadema in the last general election, in 2010, but unable and the candidate of CCM, Jakaya Kikwete.


