
The Sabasaba yaboreshwe Jul 09, 2014

Closely two weeks hundreds of the residents of Dar es Salaam and others from the provinces and even outside Tanzania, were coming out at the International Trade Fair in Dar es Salaam, popularly known as exhibition of the Sabasaba.
Walioyashuhudia the exhibitions, and more than 20 years ago, yamepanda, will agree that for every how: The number of participating countries; organizations and companies; the quality of products and services and the public unaofurika price; since the first day to the last, at the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
By any standards, a big step was taken to reach there yalipofikia this exhibition of 38 Sabasaba of this year 2014.
It is because of the huge steps of development reached, we have to give thanks to the organizers of the exhibition of the Sabasaba of this year for the good work that happened, the preparations and sure of the involvement of business people, the country, the company and various organizations.
This pace must continue.

Tulimsikia, last week, the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, akipendekeza need more kuyapanua exhibition of this country and to the Sabasaba yavute waonyeshaji more than it is now.

He alipendekeza that ikibidi even the stadiums vijengwe afresh in terms of expanding the area and making modern livutie so that the country, the public and private companies, organizations and many more people.
Without doubt, now the time has come for kuitafakari this argument the Prime Minister Pinda.
For all that is good, that is what the best, us rest of us should therefore support him the prime minister Pinda for his proposal this.
Together with the growth of the Sabasaba exhibition hayajakaa things, there is still the same.
There are many areas which sure hayampi someone encouragement of desiring to Sabasaba every time.
And this is the yanayovutia country, the company and organizations and individuals.
This argument Pinda, without doubt, has mashiko.
And because the organizers of this exhibition of Dar es Salaam have been getting the opportunity to go to attend the exhibition of our colleagues outside, they can wakaanzia at the experience of the quality of our colleagues in implementing those instructions the prime minister Pinda.


