
Minister achachamaa opposing the order of the parliament Nov 3, 2016

London, England

The Minister of Foreign Affairs of England, Sir Alan Duncan, amepinga military against the members of parliament to arrive in special takes the parliamentarians to meet, popularly known as Westminster house with their dog, saying it is the decision of the small kipuuzi.

The Westminster is the special building which members of the two in England - Makabwela Legislative Assembly (House of Commons) and the parliament Mabwanyenye (House of Lords) meets.
The area limepachikwa the name "the heart of British politics" due to his popularity in the country.
Speaking about the military, Sir Alan Duncan said his dog Noodle who is called amehuzunishwa and that decision.
Due to that situation, the minister said kutoridhishwa so as to show him and this military, he will be in his office (at) and his dog.

In his military parliament, it is written a letter to the office of the parliamentary camp wanadhimu explaining about the military owes it is aiming to prevent the speed of the members of parliament to arrive there with their vijibwa or vipaka.
It is said that in the days to come the number of parliamentarians arriving with their vijibwa vipaka or has been increasing and have been doing so without special permits.

Since the year 1991 Makabwela Legislative Assembly in England liliweka the procedure of banning dogs to slip in the area of the Westminster.
The only dog wanaoruhusiwa that area is a special dog for the purpose of defense only.

In his letter to the offices of the parliamentary aide wanadhimu, (Sergeant at Arms) writes: "Here there are rules specifically, there are things to consider about the issues of the animals and the health of the members of parliament and even their safety.
Not only members but also our workers and other visitors who "this area.

On the side Sir Alan who sometimes huongozana and his dog in his office member of parliament, told the Telegraph newspaper that,.. "if this is the situation, then, Noddle (his dog) charts atapanda more now, from the step to Westminster until (the branches above) at the office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs".

Last month, the minister of the People Wasiojiweza, Labor and Health, Penny Mordaunt, served to Westminster with his until he and defend himself that his aim was to deal with the chronic problem that it likiwasumbua parliamentarians and other directors that area.

And Melanie Onn, the member of parliament for the constituency Labour party in the Grimsby, told the Telegraph: "Many working areas have been yakinufaika and small wanaporuhusiwa when these animals.
The issue to consider is that these animals, especially wasiachwe dog wakirandaranda a long time themselves.


