
The hospital Dar zahitaji mifupa doctors...

Majaliwa leads hundreds to bid farewell to Captain Mhaiki...

300 girls wakimbia kukeketwa...

Aua the wife and child has to be told to 'mchepuko "...

The 30 minutes yaua child, 20 yabomoa behind...

DC orders officer arrested 'mchonganishi "...

Wanusurika five air accident...

Prime Minister aonya haphazard Kigamboni municipality... construction

Institute of service heart JKCI many zavutia...

Adakwa akifukua the grave of albino...

Yanga semi-finals... clean

45,000 Loans Board come out... to pay

Simba in the hands of URA...

Third wauawa wakirushiana shot by police Dar...

Electronic cigarettes risk...

Martini ataja landing Yanga reasons...

CBE watamba kutesa ufukweni Football...

JKT watamba scoring Mlandizi Queens...

Human activities they are endangering the life of the Duma...

Pneumonia inavyosumbua... children

Tajdin the assistant coach Ndanda...

Anna Senkoro died...

With pedestrian fistula treatment Zambia...

Rombo sellers relocated...

Morogoro traffic wakusanya billion 3.4 / -...

CCM Arusha launched the campaign...

The court watakiwa using technology... seeking justice

"Acacia iwalipe waliotathminiwa"...

"Acacia iwalipe waliotathminiwa"...

CCM- Limeni yanayohimili produce... drought

Here: Is the police for 32 kilograms of elephants'

Ashikiliwa police for 32 kilograms of elephants'

It has been written by Kareny Masasy, Simiyu

Imechapishwa: 17 November 2016

Police in Simiyu province, Oliver Paschal (39), a resident of the village of Ipililo in the county of Mwagala Maswa district, on allegations of found and elephants' with a weight of 32 kilograms while ameyaficha uvunguni of his bed.

Speaking with journalists in his office yesterday, the provincial police commander, Onesmo Lyanga said after getting reports of police kiintelenjinsia, they arrested him the woman with two corners because he amezificha under the passenger room in that he was residing.
Commander Lyanga said the woman was arrested on November 11th, this year, nine o'clock in the afternoon and explained that he had been arrested and those teeth with a weight of 32 kilograms in what he has planned at the house Edward Malanda.
Moreover, Commander has said the case more than concerning the 86th poaching zimesharipotiwa starting from January to September 2015, when the case zimesharipotiwa police 69 from January to September this year.
In another step, the army is holding four people for the crime of freely take hand for law and killing him with stones and marungu, Manoni Elisha (38), a resident of the village of Ngasamo wakimtuhumu that is a thief.
Lyanga said 3 o'clock at night in the bar in Manchester Ngasamo in Busega district, the suspects walimuua that person on the claims of different crimes, including the theft of the sheep on the case number NGAS / IR / 49 / 2016 which was akitafutwa and the police force.


