TANESCO yashika theft phone towers Sep 12, 2013

The government losing a significant billions of shillings every month due to the rigging is done through phone towers across the country, Good Citizen limefahamishwa.

The investigation that was done by the Tanzania Electricity Company (TANESCO) for the towers that is used by the phone company only Tigo in Dar es Salaam has revealed a loss of the amount of approximately four billion shillings.

The towers, for now, is run by the international company known by the name Helios Towers, Tanzania (HTT), which iliuziwa that towers and Tigo, in 2010.

According to the documents that this newspaper limezipata from TANESCO, due to iliyoyapata success in the previous investigation, now the organization that will make the inspection of the towers mobile all the companies that conduct its work in the country.

The investigation that was done by TANESCO ulitokana and news obtained earlier that many zinaiba phone company of electricity through the towers at and therefore he uses the real cost required.

A citizen Mwema limeona documents from that team that investigation from July 10, this year due to the order of doing that issued one day before and the acting director general of TANESCO, Felchesm Mramba.

Among other things, Good Citizen limeambiwa that the team of experts iliagizwa to investigate if there are happening in the theft, where, in what ways and costs that TANESCO has lost due to the theft.

"The investigation of TANESCO ulibaini that although the record zilizokuwepo pictures showed that there is the 259 towers Tigo, we noted that there are 104 towers 363 towers which is more than the record that we have.

"15 percent of all the towers iliyokaguliwa ilikutwa and problems.
That is the same as the number of 56 towers.
Inayochakachua towers, there were the real prices, which the poor and that's not even in our record.

"Iliyochakachuliwa towers is one where the electricity meters zimesimamishwa zisizome real cost, zilizofungwa something like governor speed to zisome procedures and other things.
The truth is very iliyotusikitisha condition considering that phone companies and its partners is international "said, the source of this newspaper kilichoshiriki in that investigation.

According to the report of the investigation that was officiated, which is in the district of Temeke iliyokumbwa and more rigging where losses iliyosababishwa is more than shillings.
Ilala 1.5. billion while both for causing a loss of one billion shillings, followed by two districts of TANESCO Dar es Salaam regional which is Kinondoni Kinondoni South and North problems that caused a loss of shillings.
425 million and 720 million shillings.

Speaking with this newspaper about the report of TANESCO, relations officer of Tigo Tanzania, peace Nkurlu, said that the company does not deal with them about the towers because it is run by their HTT and they use only for communication.

"We hatujaletewa information and TANESCO about that, but I think that it is required to answer HTT who are the ones who are driving.
Us that we gave them work of running to us towers tupeleke strength in other areas, "said.

According to the information on the internet, HTT Tigo iliilipa amount of 80 million US dollars in the month of December the year 2010 because of the towers kuiuzia.

HTT is part of the company's International Helios Towers, Africa (HTA) which is doing the business of running the phone towers in three African countries which is Tanzania, Ghana and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).

In July this year, the mobile telephone company Vodacom, iliuza towers also his communication in the company of HTT where his payments were given 24.5 percent of the shares of Helios.

Vodacom is the biggest company Tanzania and was his towers inamiliki 1149 all over the country.

The website Helios Towers, Africa indicates that the company inamiliki 4700 phone towers in the African continent and has started working officially in the year 2009.

However, Helios are opposing allegations of TANESCO.
Through his spokesperson, Michael Magambo HTT, has denied any of the stealing or taking electricity of TANESCO.

"We have the report and the investigation of TANESCO.
However tumewaambia that there are issues hawakuyatazama well.
Have done again inspection and I think they have different report now.
There is a report of 'you have former ", he said.

According to the Magambo, the payment of electricity bills inayolipwa and HTT for TANESCO every month reaches one billion shillings each month and that has been ikilipa without problems.


