South Africa yasimika good life in the village of Lungwa Mbozi Jul 24, 2013 of Good Citizen in Information

MWASIPENJELE or Uyole county 03, as inavyofahamka professionally, is the kind of beans in Mbeya, but to the citizens of the village of Lungwa in Mbozi district is a name litolewalo for livestock and even their houses of living.
The wave of those villagers to their houses, the livestock and the name of the type of beans and some of them to buy a'ombe or build houses from the funds walizopata after selling those beans type of mwasipenjele.
The popularity of the type of their beans mwasipenjele has emerged suddenly after being found for sure market in South Africa where the farmers of Isansa ward, through their groups, have gotten themselves a contract with one company from the country with those kuyahitaji beans.
The needs of the company from South Africa is 5,000 tons of those beans for the year and according to the chairman of the Association of the primary cooperative (AMCOS) of the village, those needs resulted from that company to feed the tender and their government schools in the country.
The market for those beans limepatikana through a special program to connect farmers and food markets of beans and maize known for a short time Sapphire.
Sapphire is among the zinazotekelezwa program under the project, the agricultural maize and Maharage using husishi ways to kurutubisha soil together with the markets in Mbeya, it is being implemented by funding of the Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA- Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa).
That program, which in the English language hufahamika as "Intensifying maize and beans education Production improved soil health and marketing in Mbeya Region," sells also better farming and the maize and beans, including the use of quality seeds in the area, the correct use of the input, a period of planting and considering the position.
According to the Project Manager, who is also a researcher from the Agricultural Research Institute (Uyole county motivation Uyole county), Mmari William, the needs of the type of beans in South Africa were as a result of his reputation and the main kutotengeneza acids.
It is reported that the type of ilifikishwa beans in South Africa and Tanzania, who were working migodini in that country, and to appeal more to the citizens of there due to the reputation of kutotengeneza acids (acid) together with his good taste.
However was not easy for those farmers to agree to get into the cultivation of a contract with the aim of producing in numbers that kind of beans due to their experience on the agricultural produce production projects.
Those farmers own still produce records as puplica which walihimizwa tilling in large numbers knowing there is a sure market but it did not.
"Farmers also agreed later so much, after the buyer giving 18 tons of those seeds, beans" says Mmari.
Yields of those beans in the month of March this year, were motivation to farmers of the county of Isansa together with the neighboring villages to enter with more force in those beans farming, which is after the buyer kuyanunua farmers wakivuna doesn't all so different money and it was before getting into a contract with the buyer.
Joseph Mwashambwa is among the farmers that benefited through those beans farming, who also after completing the construction of his house has given the name of the beans, Mwasipenjele.
Mwashambwa says he started cultivating those beans on December last year after kushawishiwa and experts of the project of the health of the soil, and after hesitation he tried.
"This year, I have seen that it is business, beans said they have his market and the truth is that I got shocked as" market, says the farmer then he adds; "where behind was market Mlowo unalokutana with it, and that is in the very has got that day, then it is 5,000 shillings for the plastic bucket" 20 kilograms.
The farmer reveals that the price waliyokubaliana and the buyer from South Africa is 800 shillings, therefore those kilograms for the capacity of plastic bucket on the market in that district, it means is retiring and 16,000 shillings again without the cost of transporting instead of 5,000 shillings while forced to travel more than twenty kilometers to look for the market.
"This time, nimevuna, relatives wamenifuata here," anatamba Mwashambwa then mchanganuo release of the funds that he had from sales of beans, saying "Nimemalizia my house unayoiona nimenunua Nguruwe here, for the purpose of domesticating and build his stall, nimenunua one manger, nimenunua chairs, nimelipa remaining and child fees of nearly tulitumia 101,300 for use" inside.


