
The husband AMCHINJA his wife, YAELEZWA wivu believed story of love, himself ALAZWA hospital

Rashid Mkwinda

A woman resident of the village of Mahango Madibila ward in Mbarali District, Mbeya Region was known by the name Mamga efforts (20) has been killed by being stabbed with a knife and her husband was known by the name Gervas Kadaga (25), who is also a resident of the village.

The incident happened the day before yesterday on November 21 was around 1: 00 in the evening after a dispute between the couple where the deceased had nine wounds and the knife in different parts of her body.

The police commander of Mbeya province Mister.
Diwani Athumani said that the late alifia his home where the suspect who admitted Referral Hospital in Mbeya and amejeruhiwa by being stabbed with a knife and abdomen.

However, Commander Athumani said that until now unknown its cause that conflict where the police force is continuing to investigate that incident while in a suspect in custody of the police in Mbeya Referral Hospital where he is hospitalized.

The incident of that kind is the second in a period not exceeding two weeks where on November 12, the wife and her child of waliotambulika for the names of male Husulina Kornel (42) and her son Kondo Alphonce Chikondo (19), the residents of the village of Iseche Mwambani ward Kwimba Division walishirikiana Chunya district kill her husband was known by the name Silvester Chikondo (55).

According to the report of the Commander Athumani is that the woman Husulina Kornel aliyedaiwa collaboration with her son to kill her husband her husband was arrested on November 20th Mwambani Chunya there.

Commander Athumani said that in an interview of the police force and the woman claimed that made the killings alone without kumhusisha her son who he should be and the police force.

Moreover, he said that a big percentage of the events of the killing of that kind were as a result of conflicts in marriage and wivu of sexually and that it is good for the inside wakatatua couples their disputes through talks so as to avoid harm effects occur.

Speaking at the referral hospital where he is hospitalized a mother Gervas who identified himself as Martha Lugenge said that these youths met Madibila everyone while in her activities that's when they decided to live together.

Said he was given reports of the incident the following day and that when he arrived he found a family of the deceased wameuchukua the body of their child for the purpose of the procedures of the funeral and that he doesn't know the cause of the strife wapigane however knives.

Mama said that those youths have never thought to get a child and that they have not started living together a long time; "all are children, because they have started to live a long time? Have met every one while in his work, then they started living as husband and wife," said.


