Gender violence is still the paradox Nov 28, 2013

November 25, this year, we have begun of 16 days against gender violence.
16 days against gender violence is the international campaign iliyoanzia at the first meeting of the Leadership Institute of Women's World Day (Women's Global Leadership Institute), sponsored by Water the leadership of the World Women's Center (Center for Women's Global Leadership), in the year 1991.
Participants walichagua on November 25, the international day against the party's Women, and December 10, Human Rights Day, so as to involve violence against women and human rights and to encourage violence as well as this is ukiukaji human rights.
This period of 16 days kinaangalia also other important day, including on November 29, which is the day defending human rights, on first December, World AIDS Day and December 6, the Montreal Mauaji Memorial.
Violence against women ulionea is a violation of human rights, is the disaster relief in the community and an obstacle to equality, the development, security and peace.
Words "violence against women" and "gender violence yanatumika" specific series of oppression against women that is taking place, that is generated from the absence of gender equality and the status of the women in the community under compared to men.
Resolution in 1993, the United Nations about the party's Women lliutafsiri protest to eradicate violence against women as: "Any action the gender violence causes or mateso capable of causing pain or physical, kingono or mentally for women, including threats, forced or kunyimwa independence that happen in the community or at" private life.
It is estimated that one of the three women in the world atakumbana and certain types of gender violence in his life.
Therefore it is quite clear that wanaofanyiwa gender violence are women, although it is not a must that this violence being done by men only.
The aim of these days is 16 against gender violence, but many of these days have been taken as opposing violence against women.
And to limited a mtizamo is cruelty done by men to women.
But the real situation and the events of the day-to-day and especially here in Tanzania, shows totally different, the amount of making the issue of gender violence that is the paradox.
Even ukiiangalia contracts of international human rights and the resolutions of the United Nations to violence against women and all inayohitaji the government to take action aims violence against women, including the contract to eradicate all those against the party's Women (CEDAW, 1979), the party's Women protest to eradicate (DEVAW, 1993), Beijing and the resolution Organization of the point (1995), the contract of the International Crime Court (the contract of Rome, 1998), the Millennium resolution (2000) and the Security Council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security (2000), and others.
The great wind to oppress of Domestic workers whose majority are linabadilisha girls to a sweater the whole concept of gender violence.
These harassment heavily yanatekelezwa and women.
Although these workers for a certain amount of Domestic they feel like they are oppressed and kudhalilishwa and, if the men of raping or kuwageuza small houses, but great mateso against their dignity and their freedom yanatendwa and women.
The sex business, by a certain amount is run by women.
Wanawakusanya young girls and one part, especially in big cities and kuwatumikisha kingono, is a certain kind of cultural Mara province, where wanaoa women with the aim of having the girls kuwatumikisha kingono and got children.
This culture unajulikana as Nyumbantobu.
In this culture, a girl anayeolewa and a woman, is no freedom of any kind and his body or and children anaowazaa.
This is the kind of gender violence, who although wanatendewa women, but not cruelty of men.
"The number of men arriving at the police station to complain to their wives has started to increase in speed in the city of Dar es Salaam," that was said by the acting Kamishana of police, Adolphina Chialo, when he was speaking at a commemoration of 16 days against gender violence, ulioratibiwa and the women in Law and Development (WiLDAF).
Research was done on November 22, this year, at the organized Kisuma- mwembeyanga-Temeke- Dar es Salaam, has increased the darkness, on the issue of gender violence.
Six women who are among the many women who work at the bar had conflicting and different opinions on the gender violence.


