
Agriculture of millet

Written sebastianmaresi of

Millet is a group of small seeds type of grain production grain or which by the name unajulikana as scientific (Sorghum bicolor), is very yanayolimwa crops around the world, for the purpose of food and lishe.Mtama it gives a lot of produce even in a situation that haifai for other types of grain production.
Millet has a great potential of kustahimili drought.

Millet you can be used for kuchemshwa and be eaten as you are, kusagwa and used for porridge, making drinks like on beer, bread, and other types of vitafunwa.
Mmea of sorghum also is used for the purpose of livestock food like hay and sileji.
Millet unastawi well in the environment with an average of 400 millimeters 700 - the rain in a year.
Also sorghum unavumilia part zinazotuhamisha water, and you can kulimwa part of heavy rainfall.
Millet is it good also for dry areas with an average of the heat of the amount of nyuzi temperature below 18 ° C, so as to be able to kuota well, and the amount of 25 to 30 temperatures nyuzi ° C to grow well.
Millet cannot be to persevere the ice.
Millet you can grow at all types of soil.
In a big way is it good more in the soil mfinyanzi, but also in the soil which has little amounts of a mixture of the child.
Millet you can to persevere in the soil pH uchachu from 5.0-8.5, and inavumilia soil with salt than yalivyo maize.
The types of sorghum to a total there are more than 30 types of sorghum zinazolimwa as food.
Millet flourish well in heat ikivumilia also drought.
Therefore grain is muhimi at yabisi areas of Africa.
In the previous years his farming kiliachwa many times for the purpose of maize because maize makes for great produce more acres.
But during the drought maize is a loss and people hurudi-in agriculture and the sorghum.
The types of sorghum in accordance with the existing frameworks its color, there are red, white, and kahawia.
Natural species usually zinachavushwa more easily but his poor harvest is compared to modern species.
However, the type of modern zinapopandwa zinazalishwa at an affordable cost more by following the rules of farming.
Serena: Has the punje kahawia.
This type flourish in the areas of the rains for an average and mature in a period of 110 days.
This type usually and stem and mizizi firm, where can produce an amount of 3,000 kilograms on one acre.
Where 5 kilograms of seeds are needed for one acre.
This kind has the ability to deal with the disease milia, kutu, and madoa kahawia at the leaves.
Seredo: This is another type with the punje kahawia, and inapendekezwa kulimwa in the areas of mwinuko of 1,500 meters from the equity of oceans.
This kind huchanua after 71 days and mature in the past 120 days.
This type usually is long, and has the ability to produce 5000 kilograms on one acre.
Has the ability to deal with the disease milia, kutu, mabaka at, and leaves madoa kahawia at the leaves.
Gadam: Is doing well in the areas that are not very dry.
In many countries in Kenya, for example, this type of sorghum is used to make beer and also for food.
This kind huvumilia Bungo and leaves disease.
For sure and Wahi: These are two types of sorghum which zimezalishwa and the Agricultural Research Institute Ilonga for growing at yalioathiriwa farms and viduha.
These seeds have yellow color iliyopauka.
All kinds of flour two very zinafaa for cooking Ugali.
The processing of Tayarisha farm fields so as to ease the uotaji uwelaini soil.
As the farm is dug with a tractor lipigwe requires haro and as limetayarishwa for the support to look for a clay, mabonge mabonge yavunjwe requires an amount of seeds verses Upandaji at without kupungizia it needs to 7 kilograms of up to 8 hectares and increase the need for 8 kilograms to 10 hectares.
Can increase in dust before raining, or during the rains zinapoanza or, during the rains enough zimenyesha.
Detail: Planting in the dust CM 5.0 - 6.0; planting in the soil with moisture CM 2.5 - 4.0 position: Part of a lot of moisture x 60cm: 20 CM (CM out of 60 line to line and 20 CM between the grassroots and stem); settlements Makame: Cm75x cm20 or 90 CM x cm30.
Fertilizer different types of fertilizers and samadi is used to increase the soil rotuba Samadi required: Isambazwe at the farm and kulimiwa under or it in the verses and kuchanganywa and soil before planting.
Proportion tons is a 5-10 hectares and it for one month before planting.
Fertilizer before planting a fertilizer: DAP, 20: 20: 0, 23: 23: 0 in the level of 20kg N and 20 kilograms ~ P2O5 kilograms for eka, it during the rise and before planting seeds.
Top dressing: 20 kilograms of the type of performance fertilizer Urea, CAN.
Pemebeni it to the plants and ensure inawekwa when there is enough moisture kuyeyusha of fertilizers well Palizi: Palizi to happen twice.
The first week to happen Palizi 2-3 after kuota seeds.
Killing zinazowe weeds drug use is the type of Lasso or Gesaprim (before kuota) and 2,4 D (after kuota).
Kupunguzia plants ipunguziwe with 4-3 weeks after kuota and ipunguziwe during soil moisture has enough to reduce the effects to the plants.
, destructive pests: (L) of flies bua (Antherigona soccata) are happening effects 7 days to 30 after kuota.
Viluwiluwi eat inside the mmea and causing the symptoms of moyokufa (deadheart).
Delays adds to climb the effects. (II) Vitoboa-bua (Stem borers Chilo partellus) signs vidirisha is small at machanga leaves.
Viluwiluwi hutoboa bua and plants michanga shows moyokufa (deadhearts).
Prevent early • • planting Kuondoa and roasting mabua of last season with • • Kutumia seeds ustahimilifu Kutumia kunyunyizia drugs such as the type of cells Bulldock being placed on the plants of the age of 4 weeks to prevent the harmful insects "vitoboabua" masuke and punje (i) Sorghum midge (Contarina sorghicola) huletwa effects and viluwiluwi who eat inside the essence of seeds punjena to prevent the growth of seeds and bring the seeds mapepe control: Planting earlier and at the same time of sorghum in a big area • seeds half breed better sorghum / or the sorghum zinazostahimili • effects drug use as Endosulfan, Ambush, Marshal or Karate.
Pest insects important in the reserve maghala store is like sorghum bungua and nondo. (L) Bungua-maize (Sitophilus zeamais) and Bungua sorghum - Sitophilus oryzae).
Bungua and viluwiluwi destroys and to make seeds and should not be any use.
Prevent harvesting early • kukausha fully • Kutumia maghala high quality storage and which yanapitisha carbon well • 's refining and putting drugs 6 weeks before harvesting.
Nyunyizia drugs like Actellic Super, Malathion or pyrethrum dust.
And there is a plane, as well as aircraft quelea quelea and njiwa.
Prevent early planting seeds zinazokomaa when one in the areas close to the lines. • Kutumia miali like ribbons, aluminum, regional foils. • Mikebe stones that was officiated by a voice so as to give a time to harvest during unaofaa ikivutwa • • destroying the areas of breed Kutumia • plane with the types of mitama uchachu.
NB: Newsletter to get, click here.
Communication 0754407774:


