
A student aliyewekwa kinyumba Dar arejeshwa school

It has been written by Peti Siyame, Sumbawanga

Imechapishwa: 03 November 2016

District commissioner of Sumbwanga in Rukwa region, Doctor Halfani Haule and the defense and security committee has managed to return the female student in the school aged 16 years of form one is put aliyetoroka kinyumba in Dar es Salaam.

Doctor Haule also reminded her wanaokatiza parents their daughter studies for kuwaozesha and men watakaowaoa that their solution is ready to look for them and take them to court.
Has commanded parents and guardians to ensure all chronic watoro and walioozeshwa wanarejeshwa in school to continue with their studies, and watakaokaidi stern action including being taken to court.
"The level of absenteeism in school in this municipality to primary and secondary schools is really very much isitoshe the number of female students wanaokatiza studies to get married, is really also" said.
That head of the district noted that when he addressed the council session of the municipality of Sumbawanga kilichoketi yesterday here in the city.
Alisimulia tragedy of female student aliyenusurika to get married at an early age and returned to school, the former reading form one in Itwelele secondary school in the municipality of Sumbawanga.
"Gunia girl was given the maize flour and debe one of beans and cash in the use of shillings to 30,000 akaanze boarding lives in that school (Itwelele) but after one month ran away in school... akaenda living for a period for his brother one here in then tukasikia ametorokea in Dar es Salaam...", he said.
He said after the girl to escape, walipowasiliana and her brother in the country alikofikia and aliwataarifu that the girl ran away.
He added saying that alipomwagiza is the head of the police force in the district of Sumbawanga (OCD) should ensure anawasiliana and Dar es Salaam to the girl ARUDI and to continue with their studies.
"A great pleasure of informing them that the girl amerudishwa and now he continues with his studies at the school" explained.
About the absenteeism, said the primary school located in the Kasense Chipu ward, Sumbawanga Municipality is leading by having more than 400 about chronic watoro including three girls aged 14 years who wameozeshwa.
"Kinachoshangaza during this yakitendeka at the school head teacher of the school, the chairman of the committee, the coordinators education and the leaders of the village, they are" insisted.
Ordered those leaders to ensure those children wanarudi chronic school immediately and to continue with their studies.
On his side, the councilor of Kasense Ndinda Ludimila alilieleza this newspaper that is chronic watoro 148 between 400 who have returned to school and to continue with their studies.
He added that, female students and their parents walioozeshwa hawajarudi school hawajulikani where until now they are.


