
A statement on the tour the CHADEMA Kigoma Doctor Slaa and the threat of safety in HUMO

This is the report that was given to the press today Dec 2 2013, being a statement of the session of Chadema Kigoma province.

Is about the regional office meeting held Ujiji kilibeba the agenda of Kuboresha and discussing the arrival of a tour of the secretary general (T), Doctor P. Slaa in Kigoma region, 5 / 12 / 2013 where all the provinces will visit a 8 Kigoma province for two meetings not less than in every province and later a final meeting, to be held at the headquarters of Jimb the aim is to look at the life of the party.

Major issues and important yalizingatiwa where security leader for the scandal following the decision of the executive committee against Mhe.Zitto and acceptance of our members.

To give an official report to the provinces and receiving the situation or seen in their areas.

After Tafakuri of detail and wisdom and in the coming pevu iliazimiwa follows uliomba National i.Mkoa lihairishe and to push ahead the date of the tour is important to our province so that the province as the grassroots of the region and the nation to go in those counties and educating our members and supporters on to respect and that and discipline with the decision offered by our high level even if the constitution yanamaumivu.... ifuatwe in solving the problem - collections, many of them and the leaders of the party is kuudhiwa with the decision of the main / K which obvious aimed Zitto - political.

II.
Ulitishika province and threatened after receiving reports from some of the leaders of the regional states that the security situation is not good for the coming of the leader, Doctor Slaa Kigoma to arrive in this period while the members and supporters wakitafakari and by the presence of different zisizolenga usalama. III.
For the wisdom of kilijiridhisha session to get opinions from 6 in the provinces that the situation is very bad wakishauri general secretary asogeze before his tour to allow this conflict, wisely and for the safety of its leaders Chadema and nationally.

IV.
Therefore the province through the session they followed it up it was clear it is better to prevent than to treat, already seem to be tension, especially the leaders and their conflicting opinions constituencies's attitudes is HATARI in that state, the province ulijiridhisha hautakuwepo safety in general, even if some of their only yakisema constituencies are safe.

V. HOFU / TAHADHARI - if the state haitokuwa safe apishe God.

Hautokwepa blame Province and laziness of the intention of the grassroots because the responsibility is to provide advice to the top level, therefore provides advice to the headquarters (T) Chadema to push ahead the tour until the state itulie and upite province counties is satisfied with the security to its leaders, and especially of the nation.
The aim of judge is making sure CHADEMA tunapita safe service in a difficult is for us - CHADEMA Alhaj.
Jafari KASISIKO WAMALWA Msafiri

M / KITI Regional 01 / DEC.2013 Regional Secretary General


