
How parents tunavyoishi and its effects on the ethics of the children of the lives of parents offenses hujumuisha words, actions, the habit and the custom azotumia parents of their livelihood of every day in their families and the community that surrounds them in general.
The relationship between neighbors, parents, brothers, relatives and friends and how unavyowakarimu visitors, etc.
These all the growth and affects the behavior of children in two different areas; the main positive effect and negative effects.
All of us know children learns from their parents.
Wanachokiona is doing a parent, they also does.
Different research of psychology the growth of M zinamtaka child mazazi that the leader of the family (role model).
To be an example to be followed and children, ajiheshimu especially when he is in front of children by doing good that are to be followed and children and community yanayoipendeza inayomzunguka.
To choose the words to in front of his children, especially when he is and the anger.
Hawazaliwi children and to listen to those who use the insults and say anyhow, get from zinazowazunguka in the community.
The lives of every day, small actions sayings huunda minds image of the children on the life, the relationship with language.... "your words is your actions, your is your behavior, your habit is your custom and your custom is your life," is an excerpt of a philosopher and the father of the nation of India, Mahatma Gandhi.
Due to the words of a philosopher, then this habit and custom, are the real picture is of the trend of the life of a human being yanavyoonekana in front of the eyes of other people and this and it results from his upbringing as a young child.
The brains of a human being umeumbwa receive and caring in all those records uliyoyapokea.
Experts say the growth of a young child to possess great ability of receiving the report, caring and remembering the alichokihifadhi easily than even one person, and this is because the child hufikiria during the current one only compared to the whole person who hufikiria custom habit and the parents of three times, that is the last: Next and.
Anayoyatunza is used in the brain to help these kuchanganua various challenges in life.
Unlike seen kuzoeleka, child care Hayaishii in important needs someone as food, accommodation, clothing, housing, education and health, but hujumuisha build the foundations of life itakayomfaa for now and later, he should be amesoma or hakusoma a parent has a very big role in implementing this important role in child care.
Bearing not working, bringing up work.
Our mababu Walilijua earlier.
Anaoupata rare legacy as a child from a parent is how to live and walimwengu.
Therefore analo parent the heavy responsibility to implement this.
Start to live as parents because there is a wind of kujisahau, ukaendelea to soga zembe and your friend while mkitumia yasiyofaa severe words to the ears of children including vijembe in front of children in this way unaharibu throughout the future growth and their madili.
Will cost a lot of time kuwarekebisha disciplinary waliolelewa children in these circumstances.
These children hawakosi superficial answers to adult education and usually with the problems of discipline while in school.
Their relations and teachers are not good and often cannot get close support from teachers and mwishowe hushindwa to continue well lower.
For the comments and advice tupigie 116 phone number, which is special for child services in the country.
This service haitozi payments from all networks in the country.
Also you can kutupata through our Facebook page: SEMA Tanzania; Twitter: @ SemaTanzania and www.sematanzania.org


