
By our reporter, Dar es Salaam LICHA that the presence of women in the aviation industry that little, the ability to be the leaders in the aviation has no taboo.
Speaking with this newspaper, Husky, the first woman to lead the type of plane Airbus A380 that is owned by the company of Fastjet Tanzania, pilot Anne-Marie Lewis says that women in the African continent hawapaswi fear that part of this sector which all over the continent.
He says it's not the hard work a woman that the pilot and that he's confident and he has no fear in a matter anything that is why akaaminiwa and to get the opportunity to kungoza that plane in the provinces of Tanzania and other neighboring countries.
"Women should understand that there is no type of work that is for the sake of their own men, but women wataleta in the aviation sector their ability to work hard, bringing up their skills and the effective management," says.
According to Lewis, the African women understand that they will and their decision utaondoa fear or a loss of economically.
He says that their ability to do anything, where wataweka their thoughts about what they will be at the inspiration of their goals.
Reveals that he alianzia under completely but his intention to get this in the field that had been ruled by men and for the donation from time to time from his father was is the foundation of the success anayoyapata until now.
Many youths in the African continent can think that they're lisilokuwa group and the benefits, but they are supposed to be happy because they are in the life of the modern digital so they can use to learn anything they want.
Husky says Lewis anytime they need women escape poverty hukumbwa and many challenges, this is because the people who appear to is to sit and wait kuletewa and their husbands.
"In order to succeed, women are required to be as a major cause of their reputation... unique in any position because they are good attentive, caregivers and they have great expertise, programming" says and added that the intention, inspiration and passion it gives the best forever, is also the foundation of the success.
Moreover, Lewis to release his father saying "; my father video was supposed to lead by example, kutuonyesha us that in order to succeed it needs to work hard and" interest.
He adds that their father insisted all the girls about the importance of education because that is a way of being economically independent.
"The African women who have the ability to work in any area of the aviation sector.
As I nilivyo pilot, I would like to see more women pilots in Tanzania, who will be giving training to wanaowasimamia pilots.
"Wataleta changes in the aviation sector equivalent to those women West of those who submitted changes in the aviation sector in their continent," anahitimisha.


