Restrictions viondolewe quickly travel safely on the road

It has been written by Basil

Imechapishwa: 27 September 2016

Reports that between January and August this year 6,971 accident has occurred and lost the life of people 2,217 and others wakiachwa injured and vilema, has no choice but to be taken on unaostahiki weight.

Tunakubaliana and the statement of the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Hamad Yussuf Masauni alipotamka during is Road Safety Week yesterday Geita province that is good for the issue of road safety became the agenda of the nationally.
We expedite tunasema any step that will help our nation kujinasua in this issue inayokatisha security and the lives of our people to support liungwe one and every anayelitakia best our nation.
Masauni, in his speech ordered the Tanzania Roads Agency (TANROADS) to remove the terrace steps on the main road which has said yameonekana that is part of the sources of road accidents.
The ability to remove the terrace steps on the road we are and if we see that unatuletea more dangerous instead of the aim of reducing the speed of the buses and other vehicles road yawapo especially in dangerous areas and security ferry to citizens, then tuyaondoe to pave way for inayotukabili danger.
Also made the call and the deputy minister of urged all users of roads to follow traffic rules and regulations, it has no choice but to unaostahiki keenly observing and every one of us.
Those regulations and stop we do not tire to support include high speed, crossing the ferry at the pedestrians and bicycle riders and mikokoteni and children cross the road while under supervision.
But the report that was released in the event of yesterday and the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Communication, who is also the vice chairman of the National Council for Road Safety, Edwin Ngonyani, that human mistakes contribute 80 percent of accidents and consolation and speed which contributes to 12 percent of those accidents, has no choice but to be worked on.
This is what mistakes that a human being that we cannot kuyafanyia deliberate to work with the aim of kuyadhibiti so as to save the lives of our people?
Why wanaosabisha these crimes human wasibanwe as required, as well as be tabled in the law enforcement agencies wanachostahiki to get relevant crime?
We still believe that the saying wahenga 'unity is our inability of separation and is still kulishughulikia' weaknesses in unatufaa in order for this disaster kulidhibiti kushikamana together to deal with those wanaosababisha humanitarian crimes and to continue to lose lives of our people and create vilema.
Passengers, police concerned for road safety and the government in general, tukilivalia address tutaweza kulishinda hunger, the accident and the ability, we have.
We should not accept to let a few people who deliberately regardless of the rules and regulations continue kutumaliza.
We should not accept the asilani.


