Majaliwa bursts

It has been written by Ikunda Erick and John Gagarini, Kibaha

Imechapishwa: 22 September 2016

Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed the head of the Coastal Region, Evarist Ndikilo kuziandikia a letter government institutions, public and private grounds in the city, with visivyoendelezwa wajieleze is when it will start to develop them and within two weeks, otherwise they should give answers grounds vitanyang'anywa.

The directive alilitoa yesterday here in the city, when he launched the strategic plan Court of Tanzania (2015-2020) and the project of the improvement of the court of Tanzania, in the coastal region.
Before the directive of the Prime Minister, the head of the province, Ndikilo alishitaki to the Prime Minister, the public and private institutions, which zimehodhi plots for a long time between five years to ten without developing and asked (Majaliwa) should the decision because there are people wanavihitaji.
"Kibaha is refuge to the province of Dar es Salaam, in kumejaa and here there is the chance for these who hawajaendeleza, waandikie a letter today and uwape two weeks demanding is when it will be ready to start the work," ordered Majaliwa.
The Prime Minister mentioned those institutions which hazijaendeleza plots that includes small treasury, with two stadiums and a number one another 232 kimeendelezwa, but number 221 hakijaendelezwa.
Other institutions and their grounds in brackets is Open University (OUT) (kitalu and.
228), Njuweni Institute (kitalu and.
229), the Electricity Company (Tanesco) (kitalu and.
218), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) (kitalu and.
233), the company SF Group (kitalu and.
225), CRDB Bank and the Prevention and Combating Corruption Bureau (PCCB).
He wanted Ndikilo employee them a letter and and zijibiwe within two weeks.
I know there are people of "watasema have no government budget, but the parliamentary budget linaanza April next year, to wajipange in the coming budget, so that when it reaches July first, 2018 as hawajaendeleza tuwachukulie steps, grounds, we shall give these and our other wanaosusa well. ready for studies that afresh," said Majaliwa.
Previously, launching the project, Majaliwa said many citizens to various services to the community, including the court at the county level and the district, something which is unacceptable.
"To take this opportunity to remind our colleagues of the court that, we are all of us for the purpose of serving the Wa Tanzania, therefore our plans and strategies should consider the procedure that will their rights so as to increase faith in the court and the government in general," said Minister Majaliwa.
He said a strategic plan that was launched yesterday is a good sign of leadership and the performance of the court that inajitambua, inayojua going on where and for procurement act provides time and set up a procedure of testing and evaluation in every step.
Strategic plan that the court, which will cost 139.5 billion shillings (equivalent to 65 million US dollars), utagharimiwa for money from the budget of the government and a soft loan from the World Bank.
Earlier while welcoming the Prime Minister to speak to the audience iliyohudhuria that launch, the chief justice of Tanzania, Othman Chande said the court has started a new cadre of staff to manage the cadre of financial issues so that the law can and the activities of the court only.
He said the launch of the strategic plan of the year 2015 / 16 until 2019 / 20, together with the project of the improvement of the court of Tanzania, kutaiwezesha the court to build the resident magistrate's court out of five to eight districts, the court 30 to 40 zikitegemezwa be built and beginning of 70 to 100 zitajengwa within five years of the program.
Judge Chande said out of 26 provinces in the country, is only 14 provinces which has the High Court.
He said that the court can be built in the provinces of Njombe, Geita, Simiyu, Katavi, Singida, Manyara, Songwe, Lindi, Coast and Morogoro.


