
Donation wahitajika Baringo after the residents to flee WYCLIFF KIPSANG and. Florah KOECH Commissioner of Rift Valley, Osman Warfa addresses the citizens at the meeting of the security in the area of Chemolingot, Baringo on November 17, 2014.
Photos / Jared NYATAYA human support is needed for an emergency in the areas Baringo North and South Baringo after more than 4,000 people from their homes for fear being attacked by thieves of livestock.
In South Baringo area, the family zilizohasiriwa zimetafuta at different schools where zinaishi in poor environment.
"Tunahofia that maybe there the following mkurupuko disease misongamano of people in the classrooms.
Victims do not have the mablanketi kujifunika, food and the mosquito nets to prevent.
Pregnant women and children are more walioathiriwa, "said John Wendot, an elder of the village.
Which are reports show that some of the pregnant women walijifungua poor in those environments.
The representative of the women of Wajir Baringo Grace Kiptui who visited the family zilizohasirika gave a donation of food for those wahasiriwa.
"Saddens that during the Kenyans when they were wakisherekea Christmas, our people were sleeping in mabovu meat and environment.
The government kushugulikia to challenge of lack of security immediately, "said Mrs Kiptui.
The conflict between the community of Waturgen and Wapokot flared again following the killing of the former former officer KDF from the community of Pokot kuangamizwa and who is believed to the attackers Tugen.
Peter Kokon was akiandamana and her child before kumiminiwa shot and were attackers wamewavizia on the way and then burned his car.
That officer former KDF was running a car from his home in the area of Mochongoi before being attacked by thieves of livestock which have been residents of wakihangaisha Baringo.
The community has threatened Wapokot revenge following the killing of the former soldier.
Threats so vimefanya hundreds of the hosts of the area to relocate their homes and instead kujisitri in to school.
More than 20 school may zisifunguliwe today for the first term this year after leaving parents with their children.
Some of the schools that has been affected in Baringo area, North is Chepkewel, Kalabata, Yatia, Sibilo, Kapturo and Chemindany.
The other is Tilingwo, Kagir, Ng'aratuko, Kosile, Rormoch, Chepkesin, Kamwetio, Chepkew, Barketiew and Moinonin.
Them South Baringo schools is Arabal, Ruggus, Mukutani, Kashiela, Chebinyiny, Chemorokyon, Ng'elecha and Kapindasum.
Some schools also require kukarabatiwa after being affirmed that walipora attackers iron sheets and equipment such as solar installations in those schools.
The attackers now have houses burn zimeachwa victims and their property and people that are remaining.
The member of parliament for Baringo North William Cheptumo wanted the government to increase the number of plisi of savings in the villages Chemoe, Yatya, Kagir, Ng'aratuko and Loruk so as to strengthen security.


