
The contractor Kinyerezi- bridge Bonyokwa apewa 25 days

It has been written by Sophia Mwambe

Imechapishwa: 24th November 2016

Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Paul Makonda, has given 25 days to the contractor of the Texas company, Francis Musiba to complete the construction of the bridge that connects the area of Tabata Kinyerezi and Bonyokwa.

Moreover, has directed Engineer of the Municipal of Ilala, Nyamagalula Masatu ensure anashirikiana and Roads Agency (TANROADS) to inspect the construction as the quality and the required levels kimefikiwa.
Makonda made the statement when he visited the bridge Kinyerezi and inspect the bridge as part of his tour in the district of Ilala.
Despite the directive, also has ordered the Roads Agency (TANROADS) and the managers of the project to inspect the quality of the bridge if it meets the required standards before starting to be used.
Gave the directive after the citizens of the area complaining about the delay the completion of that project unaotajwa it started in the year 2013.
After those complaints, Makonda alimuuliza member of parliament, Segerea Bonna Kaluwa, if served to arrive at the bridge to inspect the building where he admitted to join those citizens accusing kuchelewesha the contractor for the construction of the bridge.
"I have really come here five times and the contractor alinieleza this bridge lingekamilika within four days, since April, 2016 but until now halijakamilika and my citizens still continue to suffer," Bonna said.
The answer that made him Masatu Makonda to set a contract of that bridge ulisainiwa when it where he answered that the contract ulisainiwa March 30, 2015 and started on June 30, 2015.
However, the representative of the Texas company, Musiba denied reports of the construction started in the year 2013 and claimed ulinza April 29 this year.
"This bridge is under the Roads Agency (TANROADS), therefore we are waiting to get a permit to demolish some part zinazopitiwa and this project from the Ilala municipality," said.
Makonda said if the construction hautamalizika within that period will not be given a any bids in Dar es Salaam.
In another step Makonda he ordered the police commander of Kipolisi Ilala, Salum Hamduni him the chairman of Bonyokwa Estate, Solomon Kagaruki kutotekeleza on allegations of his responsibilities, including bribery, threatened to take the citizens and also alleged to take 10 percent of the price are grounds.


