
Shipments of yaibwa cargo port Dar Aug 11, 2012

The state of security of exemption products in the country through the port of Dar es Salaam, especially in the company and offloading Mizigo (TICTS), it is not satisfactory and some of the business people have started deserted it that port and start using the Port of Mombasa, Kenya, Good Citizen limebaini.
The investigation that was done by this newspaper unathibitisha that many businessmen have stopped already kupitishia their products through Tanzania, for fear that theft unaoonekana kukubuhu at the port.
This situation it seems more to do business people from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), most of them right now wanapitishia cargo at the port of Mombasa.
Those traders who are from many areas of Bukavu in Congo, at different times have confirmed to be effected by the theft at the port of Dar es Salaam.
Apart from the traders from Bukavu, others are from the areas of Lubumbashi who wameikimbia the Port of Dar es Salaam and decided to kupitishia their cargo in South Africa and in the port of Beira, in Angola.
Commenting on the situation, Bernard Makita, who is one of the officers from the embassy of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the country, who is also the representative of the government of OGEFREM (equivalent to SUMATRA Tanzania) says the situation is dangerous for the country's economy.
"Brother mwanadishi are better if the traders people take that responsibility because the things that are happening in the TICTS yanakatisha up since the theft, and its authoritativeness vimetawala primary in that company," said Makita in shock.
Warned that, if the situation haitafanyiwa work and release the company will make foreign, that port can closed due to lack of customers and thus endangering the economy of this nation.
On his part, Faines Kiwia, who is the executive director of the Triple.
D. inayojishugulisha and the provision of goods at the port for many years, said the state of the theft of goods has reached the level kibaya an amount of causing loss of government revenue at a high level.
In his conversation with the writer of this news, the director the executive talked example of the containers that are said to get lost in the hands of TICTS.
In that loss, it is claimed that one kontena lilikutwa at one of the country's army camp being another empty and found the Ubungo areas, in Dar es Salaam, having already limekwisha be opened.
Claimed that for a period of two years ago, there is the loss of 40 approximately containers of business people from the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Those containers yamepotea "" the hands of TICTS.
The author of this newspaper, when he made an effort to find the wasemaji from TICTS to talk about zinazoelekezwa accusations in that company, those efforts hazikuzaa fruits, as it was for the efforts that took place in order to get the leaders of the Ports Authority to talk about the complaints of the business.
However, those efforts are ongoing.


