
It is true, we need this law Nov 22, 2012

In the third page of this newspaper tumechapisha news about the meeting of the leaders of the Institute of fighting corruption in East Africa (EAAACA), which began on Monday this week in Mwanza.

Various leaders, in that meeting, providing recommendations and advice in order to improve the fight against corruption in the East African countries.

Between include speakers and deputy chairman of the committee on ethics and fighting corruption of Kenya (EACC), Irene Keino.
Among other things, Tanzania that Keino has advised a special rule of monitoring of its resources zinazoibwa, meaning Asset Tracking Act.

Together with the existence of the law to protect the witnesses, tunadhani it is the right time for Tanzania to have the law that way, that is independent and not to put that section within the other laws.

There are several reasons the important to support that advice and bigger is the fact that as a nation, our economy continues to open up the day after day, the challenges of controlling our system of economic growth as you keep also inavyosogea years.

Business opportunities in the country keep opened up while the pace of harvesting of the rise is resources.
The challenges and the other, which is not easy kuziorodhesha here, it is clear that will be and loopholes of corruption.

In the list of the challenges of the expansion of the economy and this speed of harvesting of resources of the country, the theft and corruption of resources is clear threat.
For that reason, it is important now that with the law that way, though he also experiences unathibitisha that, in Tanzania, the problem is not the law, but it is the foundation of law enforcement.

However, as well as to recognize that the problem of law but not the foundation of law enforcement, it is also important to continue improving and even to enact new laws for more good faith that, one day, the supervisors keen of these laws will come out.

We recognize that that the fight against corruption and the theft of the natural resources of the country is war inayohitaji the use of all weapons to approximately which truly can be found.

We have the willingness to select the weapons in the fight against bribery and corruption, and we have the willingness to choose what time we what weapons.
It is true that the law of the country should follow zilizoporwa resources, parliament and government officials wafikirie keenly this advice.


