
Waiting for a budget majawabu Jun 06, 2012

Next week, on Thursday, June 14, the Minister of Finance, Doctor.
William Mgimwa, is expected to submit the national budget for the fiscal year 2012 / 2013.
This will be the seventh budget since President Jakaya Kikwete entered to power in 2005.
Will be the budget which inatangulia two other budget before President Kikwete to leave power according to the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
But also, this will be the second budget for the second term of President Kikwete.
In the past six all budget, as usual yamekuwapo success and harm problems yamechangiwa was informed that the weaknesses that have emerged in the management of the budget.
It is possible, the weaknesses or strength in the management of the past budget umechangiwa in a certain way and the ministers of the relevant money or even some of the directors of the government and donors of the budget.
Is our expectations that the weaknesses in the management of the past six budget utatumiwa as a class to learn and strengthen the seventh in this budget, which will be the first new budget to the Minister of Finance, Doctor.
William Mgimwa.
But on the other side, the strength of the past budget in some parts of the implementation utumike as the criterion continues to improve this budget.
Is our expectations, this budget majawabu will give the many problems that are not important economically in the country.
Is our expectations, the budget else that would raise new revenue sources and reduce tax exemptions too.
Bigger is that this budget, tunataraji itaweka effective strategies to control the inflation on important products in the country.
That is, it will be the budget of the citizens.
On the other side, tunarajia this budget itazingatia advice of the national executive committee of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) wanting to value-added tax (VAT) to be withdrawn in the food.
More than that, another advice tunataraji itazingatia budget with the nation's interest from other parties political parties and other private institutions in the country.
Basically, we expect the budget with satisfactory majawabu zinazouzonga concerns about the economy of our country.


