
Banned going to school and a draw zilizochanika

It has been written by Ikunda Erick, Kibiti

Imechapishwa: 30 September 2016

Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has banned the students to wear a draw zilizochanika and going to school without to wear shoes and urged parents to ensure their children to eat for.

Has directed the District Commissioner of Kibiti watoro students start a search of the school their parents so that action can be taken against them.
Has given out the direction the other day in Kibiti when speaking to the public at a rally when he was in the tour in the coastal region.
Minister Majaliwa said the government of the fifth term annulled the fees in primary and secondary schools in the government as a step to lift the level of education and urged parents and guardians to fulfill their responsibility to ensure these children are learning and not cut their learning and to get married.
"DC from now begin a search of all the children wasioenda schools to their parents wakamatwe and take appropriate action.
The government has given money so that our children and it is illegal for marrying the girl child, a parent ukihusika tunakukamata and kukufunga and you uliyeoa you are in jail, we joke at "that, he said.
Speaking about the needs of the children in school, Majaliwa said right now a parent amepunguziwa a burden of paying fees and many contributions that the government has given and urged parents to use that money to ensure those children wananunuliwa uniform, shoes and given food for so well.
"Those funds mlizokuwa mnatumia pay fees and contributions now zitumieni to buy a draw and food for your children, it is prohibited the child to go to school while akipekua or wearing a draw zilizochanika", he said.
He said parents must ensure that their children are learning.
Warned the parents with the behavior of children for marrying kuwakatiza studies should stop immediately because from now who is found terminating the education of a student female especially, can also prepare to go to prison for 30 years.
In another step, the prime minister said three servants of the department of forestry aliowasimamisha work to pave way for investigations will continue to be out of work.
Also, alimrudisha at work, Forest Officer of the National Forest Agency (TFS) Rufiji district, because it is the new servant and hakuhusika at the haphazard harvesting of forests.
However, he urged traders with the license to harvest logs to the office of the council inspection the legality of their licenses while waiting for a new process of harvesting forest products.


