
Reproductive rights in the law of these Tanzania work in reproductive rights is zinazomwezesha rights mwajiriwa woman fulfilling its responsibilities of fulfilling its responsibilities H sell and to work or to produce without kubaguliwa, kubugudhiwa or lost employment.
Reproductive holiday being one of reproductive rights, humpa mother and a father to provide care important for a child in the days / in the first months of his life, as well as kumnyonyesha.
Similarly reproductive holiday humpa mwajiriwa mother time to rest and thereby helping his body back to health and a normal after giving birth.
In that logic, it is important to the employer and mwajiriwa to know well these rights and responsibilities in the implementation of the law.
Provides information.
A woman mwajiriwa is supposed to let him know his employer intention of reproductive holiday to take at least three months before the date of the estimates on giving birth while akiambatanisha an illustration of the doctor about the pregnancy.
Reproductive holiday can be taken four weeks before giving birth or earlier if there is a confirmation of the doctor that it is important to do that because of the health of the mother or the child.
Mama has the right to be given birth of not less than 84 days with payments.
At the same time, more than one child who gave birth to twins (or more) should be given 100 days with the family.
If the child has died.
A woman has the right to be given the holiday again reproductive 84 days career if his child atafariki in a period of one year since the birth.
However, the law, the employer is answerable to give her a woman mwajiriwa only four holiday the reproduction throughout the period of employment.
ARUDI it at work.
Mama mwajiriwa is not allowed to return to work in a period of six weeks since the first giving birth but only when he ameruhusiwa to do so and the doctor.
Also work anaporudi mother anayenyonyesha has the right to be given a period of two hours a day during the work to kumlisha / kumnyonyesha her child.
To work on the night.
A pregnant woman and a mother anayenyonyesha hapaswi placed the work of two months starting from the night before and after giving birth, or any time atakapoonyesha for the employer a certificate of the doctor kinachoeleza that his condition does not to work on the night.
Reproductive holiday for the father mwajiriwa.
Employment law gives the holiday of not less than three days with payments the father of the child who was born.
That those days can be taken in a period of one week since the birth of the first child.
Normally the holiday 3 days are given out only once in the circulation of the holiday of the year without caring about the number of children watakaozaliwa in that period.
Move from this holiday, meaning only once every year even if the father has alowapata children more than once in the year.
The holiday father gives the opportunity to serve the mother and child, to help a mother to build a good foundation kumlisha a child and also needs to look for the family.
The father of the child who was born can also be given career less than 4 days, during the kuuguliwa and child, the death of the child or the death of his spouse.
The holiday are 4 days once in the period of the circulation of the holiday of the year regardless of the number of events being raised in that period.
However, the employer can mwajiriwa authorized to take more days that according to the payments he got the problem.


