
A gift Rock City Marathon zawekwa publicly

It has been written by our writer

Imechapishwa: 15 September 2016

The coordinators of the athletics competitions Rock City Marathon have announced the cost and the prizes to be awarded to the winners of the race is expected to take place at the CCM Kirumba Mwanza September this year.

Speaking about those gifts in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the coordinator of those races zinazoandaliwa by Capital Plus International in conjunction with Mwanza region, Mathew Kasonta said the first winners of 21 kilometers race for men and women watajinyakulia 1.5 million shillings each, shillings 900,000 to the winners of the second and 700,000 shillings for the third winner.
On the side of five kilometers race which zitaongozwa and heads of Mwanza and Simiyu which also zitahusisha employees from different companies and people with albinism, Kasonta said the winners will receive a gift of honor to the company while money distributed to participants with albinism.
"The winners of three kilometers race which are specifically for the elderly will receive 50,000 shillings for the first winners while the winners of the second and third also getting cash money," "said.
Kasonta said to the winners of the race 2 kilometers zitakazohusisha children aged between 7 years to 10 will receive 30,000 shillings each.
Said the winners of the first 100 meters short in the 400, 800 and 1,500, which is specific to the students will receive a prize of 50,000 shillings each (men and women), 30,000 shillings for the winners of the second while three winners wakiambulia an amount of 20,000 shillings for every one.
"Bigger is also very thank the sponsors of the races for continuing to support us in these preparations, meaning the company Freidkin Conservation Fund and African Wildlife Trust, NMB Bank, New Mwanza Hotel, the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), Real PR Solutions, Fabec, TIPER, Puma Energies, Clouds FM, Jembe FM, Barmedas Tv and EF OUT" Door, he said.
Called on more participants to continue to register in order to confirm their participation in the race which apart from raising talents in athletics in the country also is fighting poaching in addition to announcing the tourism in Lake Victoria.
"To the residents of the city of Mwanza and neighboring provinces can register to take the form in several stations including the Office of the games all districts in Mwanza region, the office of the athletics all regions of Geita, Simiyu and Shinyanga, the Nyamanga Stadium, the University of St Augustino Mwanza, the center for sports Malya, International School of Isamilo and Mwanza Hotel.
"On the side of Dar es Salaam also participation forms are available at the offices of the Capital Plus International Company in the third floor building of the ATC, in Dar es, Salaam," alihitimisha.


