Three days of education in the village Chipogoro 18 February 1, 2015

13 hours after the journey niliwasili Chipogoro village, Mpwapwa, Dodoma on at around three o'clock at night.
When I was in Dodoma town, nilimdadisi one of my fellow passengers on the Chipogoro.
The state of Chipogoro Matamu words was contrary to the passengers that aliyeniambia there is for all the services including primary houses for the visitors.
Strict hunger issues and fear of eating my way, ilinisukuma directly in the stall, where the houses vihepe niliambiwa sleep visitors is only one on the second side of the road!
Vyangu Vihepe hand, nikavuka nilipoelekezwa towards the road.
After asking several times, nikawasili.
Four rooms inside toilet with vilishajaa.
Electricity is present in the light of the sun and unawasha only lights.
Suicide dirty sheets.
Godoro kunguni filled up with food, while applauding mosquitoes alone the hot temperatures.
Toilet was very dirty water while posted of the problems.
Around eleven o'clock at night TACCI group, walionileta Chipogoro waliwasili in the house niliyofikia guests.
Kulileta them into a conflict because havikutosha rooms, while water yakiisha completely.
Kifupisho TACCI, is the Tanzania Community Civic Initiative is the civilian institutions in Dar es Salaam civilian that provides early education.
TACCI artists walinieleza that the problems that they face nilizokutana Chipogoro hazifikii even half of their convoy mikasa migumu waliyoipitia at least a period of two months in the county and villages of the Mpwapwa District providing education.
But, what those problems, all wanazozipitia bearing productivity worth mhanga commitment to an extent this?
My schedule for a three-day walk and to witness the work of the artists TACCI ilinipatia answers.
The morning of my first day of work after the mosquitoes and stern injections kunguni, two lawyers, Clementina William and Husna Kiobya, which is part of the group started a seminar to schedule to run the county leaders about inheritance and good governance.
Followers were attracted leaders and the subject of wosia.
Especially because the profits, the conditions and place wosia reserve.
At the end of the seminar, lawyers waliwabembeleza leaders to visit their villages wakawape citizens that education.
"Tungeweza to ourselves but hatutaeleza properly, chairman of this as" Chipogoro village, popularly known as Punda of Jesus, told the lawyers.
After the seminar, the leaders walionyeshwa maigizo with sophisticated training intended purposes displayed at vilivyoteuliwa three villages in the ward.
In the afternoon of that day, the task of providing education through the sports drama ikaanza in the village of Wiyenzele.
Maigizo in line with the law, kuliwekwa hema also advise the citizens to fight for their rights to free the way.
In the advice hema started nine o'clock nilishuhudia queue of people with different problems waiting to meet with the lawyers.
Clementina, one of the lawyers said many citizens of Mpwapwa have been seeking advice about the conflicts in marriage, land and inheritance while the victims heads being women and children.
Several times, those advisers have been getting returns from the citizens wanaoshukuru after succeeding or wanting more advice.
12.30 o'clock in the evening the show it the art maigizo.
Maigizo yalionyeshwa yakigusa four different content including good governance, oppression of women and children.
Igizo was of the first song and a sign likiaanza for showing the father ananunuliwa alcohol and people who have later awaozeshe money so as to bribe him his daughter with good development who learns primary school education.
Mother of the child is opposing and receiving a severe blow while akizirai daughter in shock.
The second igizo linaonyesha wategemezi waliolala waiting kuletewa development and the leaders, parents, husbands and so on.
Hawahudhurii citizens meetings to discuss the development walishachagua believing leaders who is that those who should bring development without any contribution to the citizen!
Igizo is about the third act of women and widows.
After the death of her husband, one of the perpetrators anafukuzwa in waliyojenga houses and her husband while family wakijirithisha everything.
And her sister complaints beaten by her husband who is drunk, lazy but akitegemea kupikiwa vinono without to stop money.
This sister every aliposhtaki, - for the father, mother, aunt - he was told avumilie.
Men drunkards them wanashauriana kuoza child in-laws to be rich anawanunulia alcohol kilabuni.
However igizo linaisha for two madada kusambaratisha dealing with the whole clan uliopanga for oppressing the widow and orphans.
The fourth igizo linaonyesha kujisahau level the Wa Tanzania.
Linaanza for pakawa paukwa, where the old one as good about one country, with the rich milk, honey and minerals but has wapuuzi citizens.


