
Masaibu yanayokumba coffee industries, the complaints from the farmers of tea leaves the country following the news that slightly will get more from small a bonus for the council ya Kenya, KTDA, yamedhihirisha open yanayoikabili problems of tea leaves sector in the country.
KTDA buy one kilogram of tea leaves to Sh14 and then later at the end of the financial year to provide additional payments yaitwayo a bonus.
Wakuzaji of tea leaves get the second those payments depending on the amount of walichopeleka leaves the factory in and the ability of the financial industry wanachopelekea those leaves.
Payments to farmers wanaozidi 560 tea, all over the country yalishuka from between 24 and Sh35 last year to Sh8.50 and Sh16 this year.
A total of the funds that were set aside for those payments and KTDA also to 44 percent drop from last year billion Sh35.6 Sh19.8 until this year billion.
The chairperson of the farmers of tea slightly (Kussto) the branch Rift Valley Joel Chepkwony says that the amount of under a bonus this year kilisababishwa and the highest number of directors of KTDA.
Mister anawafananisha Chepkwony those directors and "kupe" while akishangaa why 455 directors were wanalipwa millions of money to 65 industries that under the KTDA inside here in the country, while the farmers continue to receive low payments.
"Is it must be and seven directors in every industry of tea to the KTDA?
This is a big cargo to farmers because every receives the payment of approximately 1 million every year.
Hatuhitaji many directors, therefore, Mister "said Chepkwony.
During that uo, Mister Chepkwony is calling for the Minister of Agriculture Felix Kosgey to intervene and reducing the number of directors to two remain in every industry, explaining that this will reduce the cost of running the industries so that more money can be paid farmers.
KTDA inasimamia 64 industries on behalf of the company of tea 54 zinazomilikiwa directly and tea farmers who are wenyehisa.
Abraham Rotich, the accountant KTDA in the area of Kericho and Bomet, anakanusha claims that the organization lilisababisha tea prices in the international auction area of Mombasa (Mombasa Auction) drop.
Mister KTDA Rotich clarified that had equal rights and other business people who sell and buy at the auction and therefore did not have any authority to decide the price of tea.
"That price inaamuliwa and international mielekeo, together with the needs and the demands of customers who want to buy the tea.
Can also be effected by the level of the change, dollars "aongeza.
The tea sector in Kenya imekabiliwa strongly with different problems yanayoonekana kutoimarika for markets to be caused by the foreign countries yaliyosongwa and a political or weakened for the economy.
Kenya is leading the world in the sale of the type of tea CTC (Cut, Tear and Curl) in the international market, considering that contributes 22 percent of CTC sales in the world.
Marketing of the Kenya international tea include Egypt, England, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Sudan, Russia, Yemen and the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
About a bonus, however, in the areas yanakokuzwa tea leaves various industries in the country, the tea making vilitoa different levels of payments that extra.
In Wajir Kericho, Momul factory kilitoa extra payments of the highest in the south of the Rift Valley, as Sh15.25 for, while other industries like kilograms Litein, Kapkatet and Tegat vikilipa Sh12 farmers and Sh14 mtawalia.
The industry for making the tea Ogembo in Kisii Wajir kililipa a bonus of the lowest in the country, as Sh8.5 for while kilograms of what Imenti, Meru kikiongoza for Sh26.
So the solution of these problems is lipi?
In his tour in Kericho several months ago, the general secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture Sicily Kariuki admitted that the tea sector in the country imekabiliwa and various challenges.
Miss Kariuki has shown his concern that under five percent of the total of the tea to the whole country Kenya was being used by its citizens, while 95 percent ikiuzwa in foreign markets.
He says that the government will continue to look for new markets in the world, while tea akitambua tea that is one of the country's revenue yanayoipa produce foreign exchange.
Last year, ilizolea tea this country shillings 114.5 billion in foreign sales and Sh22 here billion in the country.
However, the cost of making a big tea imehusishwa industries and quick reduction in income of farmers of tea leaves, making the tea making different industries to look for a way to reduce the cost to farmers to get more money.
Four kilograms of tea leaves on from are needed to create one kilogram of tea which huuzwa every week at the auction in Mombasa and tea which umetambulika so much.
Other stations are internationally in the cities of Colombo, and Calcutta in Sri Lanka and India.
Momul factory manager Leonard Gitobu Muriithi says the factory is using 60 million shillings each year to pay the price of electricity to run its machines, and working on buying more Sh50m kuni.
Mister Muriithi he adds that according to the controversy this situation, I had several industries in the tea the Wajir Bomet and Kericho registering the company to generate itakayojulikana Stima as Setet Power Company'ili producing electricity for use in those industries.
"According to yalivyo things now, every the farmer anapoteza close to 5 which zingeenda for his payments in the payment of electricity every year," has said.


