
Asifu tribe at the port of Dar changes

It has been written and Halima Mlacha

Imechapishwa: 5 October 2016

President of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Joseph Kabila ameyasifu change that started to be seen in the Port of Dar es Salaam, and kuihakikishia Tanzania that the country will increase the speed over the use of the port.

Until now, according to the President John Magufuli, cargo inayopitia at the port from and to DRC has increased to 10.6 percent while the business between those countries increasing from 23 billion shillings 2009 to 396.3 billion shillings last year.
Together with that, DRC, and Tanzania zimesaini of honor an agreement to do the research of oil in Lake Tanganyika, which yakibainika and start to be generated, yatasafirishwa through oil pipeline that is expected to be built from Uganda to come to the country.
Speaking with journalists after finishing his talks with President Magufuli, State House Dar es Salaam yesterday, President Kabila said his country is ready to promote the economic and commercial relationship that exists between those two countries.
"DRC uses the port of Dar es Salaam in a big way to transport cargo, but his nikiri that last year we had problems with this port, but in fact, for now, the situation is different because there has been a major changes in the services in this port yanayotupa" heart said President Kabila who arrived in the country the day before yesterday for a three-day tour inayomalizika today.
He said that for how the situation is at the port, it is clear that in the coming days, it will be a good port in Africa which will be used more, not only by a few countries in East Africa, but even western countries.
Said kijiografia, DRC the side of east by four countries which is Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Tanzania, but between those countries approximately 50 percent of businesses in the country of Congo is doing and Tanzania.
Said he is impressed by the way the government of the fifth term, more how it has organized to improve services of Tanzania Port Authority (TPA), as well as partnering with dry port available DRC, something litalorahisisha more business between the two countries.
I'm glad to see also "mnazindua this building litakalotengeneza one station for providing port services.
I have faith in our business between Tanzania and itaongezeka...... "because together with other businesses, DRC bronze tunazalisha, last year we were tunazalisha 100,000 tons of up to 150,000 bronze but now due to the investment tunazalisha one million tons of up to one and a half million, so I have faith that we shall continue to cooperate in this area" lauchukuzi, he insisted.
Speaking about the contract that was signed by the oil ministers of both countries who is the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo and the minister of oil of DRC, Ngoi Mukena, said the agreement is the beginning of the partnership between the two countries in the area of oil.
He said that for now, Africa has begun discovered many areas with oil, giving an example his country of DRC iliyogundua oil through the Lake Albert and Uganda which has completed the construction of the talks litakalopitia Tanga oil pipeline.
Together with that, President Kabila also spoke about the issue of peace and the elections his country, where he stressed that his government is ready to confirm to the democracy to citizens of Congo in the elections that will take place or this year or next year.
"I would like to take this opportunity to be open, and a lot of fighting and violence of the media that the situation is bad in DRC.
Nawahakikishia citizens of Congo and the South African countries (SADC) that the state of Congo is safe and there is peace, "said President Kabila who had come to power in the year 2001.
He said that for now in that country, there is the state of the worry viguvugu kukaribia for in that country due to the election period, a condition which is normal for any country.
"My government plans call for talks and to talk about this issue.
We want elections can be conducted by concentrating on the basis of democracy, freedom and peace, "said.
However, admitted that in the country, there have been the problem of security small groups through the rebels who have been carrying out attacks several times, including abductions thank the people and the government of Tanzania for that one of the countries zilizopeleka its troops to help to restore the peace in that country.
On his part, President Magufuli admitted that the state of the port of Dar es Salaam, and it has changed due to the great efforts that the government of the fifth term imezifanya to remove all workers including mzingira destroy contributed to the work of the port.
"Is true in the previous years here there were people waliojiona is people gods, they used their power, maboneti walidiriki to deposit money in the interests of their vehicles regardless of Tanzania.
Nakuhakikishia Honorable President Kabila in the fifth phase of the government, these issues if hayototokea never ", he insisted.
Said between aliyozungumza things and the president, has agreed to increase the participation of the DRC to pass his cargo because up to now DRC has succeeded in increasing inayopitia cargo port of Dar es Salaam to 10.6 percent.
He said in addition to eliminate the problem of bureaucracy at the port, but also the government milolongo whose wanaopitisha business for their goods in the country by reducing the number of mizani inspecting the cargo and reach three mizani, zitakazokuwa in the areas of Vigwaza Manyoni Coastal Region, Singida region and Nyakahura Kagera region.
I have been told that TPA "but also have agreed to remove apologized to the business people of DRC to increase the time to put their cargo at the port from 14 days to 30 days," said and added that in improving the business environment in the country, the government also in its budget for the year 2016 / 17 has allocated a total of one trillion shillings for the construction of a modern railway itakayounganishwa from Burundi to Isaka which also reduce transport inconveniences for the business people of DRC.
Moreover, he asked the President Kabila and afuatilie and take action against all those wanaolalamikiwa unit in the tax and the customs side of DRC to bureaucracy so as to be able to create more conducive environment between those two countries.
About the contract of oil, President Magufuli said the agreement between the DRC, and Tanzania, oil utarahisisha will at the Lake Tanganyika transported through the fuel constructed a pipeline from Uganda to Tanzania.
Speaking about the issue of defense and security of DRC, Magufuli said in his talks with President Kabila, amemthibitishia that in that country, there is the security situation, and that the government is committed to the election is taking place in peace and to follow the principles of democracy.
"For now they are in the process of to register at the kupigakura because this country expects to have the number of voters about 45 million where the previous election 35 million people walijiandikisha kupigakura", he said.
Moreover, he said, has agreed to the request of the president of wanting wafuatilie the state of peace in the country and noted that through his position as the chairman of the Any political defense and security, the SADC (Troika), has ordered the ministers of foreign affairs from three countries real assess the security in that country.
He said those ministers watakaokwenda DRC is the minister of foreign affairs from Tanzania, Angola and Mozambique.
Moreover, President Magufuli also said in his talks with President Kabila, amemueleza his intention of wanting to the country of the DRC to join the East African Community and wanted to awasilishe his letter of honor so that it can be debated and other members of the community.
President Kabila alizindua the foundation stone of the building of the TPA, popularly known as one stop litakalotumika Center, for the purpose of providing all the services of the port and TRA.
According to the managing director of TPA, Deusdedis Kakoko, building, with 35 stories are mostly in the world's tallest countries of East and Central Africa.


