These are the MAISHA: The youth there are more than life kubeti

It has been written by Angela Semaya

Imechapishwa: August 2 October 2016

Soccer is a game with many fans, especially young people of different age.

It is an undeniable truth the soccer game has been and so many fans around the world, including the fans of Tanzania who are ready for anything as well as to put a bet of money just because of kuupenda that game.
There is no sin to love sports, but there is a need to put border between games we do not tire to support and working to develop themselves economically or.
Because of the fanaticism that your business, waliobuni where fans have been wakibashiri the results of the game, popularly known as "kubeti" participating and they are ready to use all the money so that they have only project participants that game.
As this issue to me naamua kulizungumzia linanitatiza until today, that is how he also seen kuitatiza inahisi losing government that the strength of the youth who some of them have decided to focus on gambling instead of playing kujishughulisha or are involved in web development funds using kubeti.
The deputy minister, Office of the Prime Minister who deals with Labor, Employment and youth, Antony Mavunde recently explained his disappointment with the behavior of young people using a lot of time speculation of results of sports and using a lot of money for the things luxury.
Mavunde anawataka kutopoteza youths playing time that gambling and instead they use those funds speculation of results on issues of development.
I and Mavunde in that, it's not usually siwaelewi secret youth or wanaojisahau people and to play the gambling and lost money to which wangezitumia meaningful issues of development and uplifting the economically.
That is a person is doing the work again kuchosha or mateso gets the little wages, the same to play spends gambling that he does not sure of getting, his results coming kapa, money lost hajashinda starts and going round again.
Again wanafuata only or other punishment to kujionesha to their own them that when anapolala penyewe problem, he didn't know what or what atakula atavaa!
Achana youth and these things, do development matters.
There is a part your naifahamu youth and even adult got overnight and from going kubeti, ukiwasikia now wanavyozungumza non-issues and why, until really like these people, and if the family members own then wamekula losses.
The whole father or the youth unatoka unasema home goes to work, yet the work kwenyewe is going to get money for the purpose of playing and gambling.
It's not good, we must be even a bit and knowledge and skills, mind, this is not life kuchezacheza and lost money illegally.
You can say is your work, your money and, if your decision is himself the same as if your problem hutasumbua someone with the same, but if your life itself of supporting the flour, and you have a family, then you get money gambling kuzichezea goes, there will be no atakayekubebea unakosea and your problem.
Deputy minister Mavunde kawakumbusha nawafungua knowledge, and I, we must be and the goals in life, wanaochezesha remember the games, they are doing business, themselves, involved in bringing in mnapoteza, because you are not sure it is gambling chance.
I have no doubt and someone who is doing the work and get enough money for the purpose of kujiendelea or to fulfill his personal needs and his family, then he has the extra money gambling, but if he does not play for extra anatapanya then his money that style then imekula condolences to you.
The youth mjitume, fanyeni work for the goals kujinyanyua and bringing development, shirikini in good things yatakayoleta private benefit to you and the community that surrounds them.
Have luxury end and at the end, another time is not good.
The work to you.


