
The Institute of Agriculture Agro For me Foundation has been launched officially in the Institute of Agriculture of Agro For me Foundation in Dar es Salaam and issues that the lift up and the agricultural sector in the country today 31 January 2017, has been launched officially in front of the stakeholders of Agriculture and the leaders of the government in an event that took place in Dar es Salaam today.
Previously at the launch, the governor of Dar es Salaam, Honorable.
Paul Makonda, who was represented by Kigamboni District Commissioner, Honorable.
Hashim Mgandilwa has congratulated the Agro For me Foundation, to come up with that their plan because it is among the sectors zinazoinua Tanzania's economy while urging them to provide education to focus more on agriculture and also the issue of information to the farmers on agriculture and marketing.
The guest of honor the district commissioner of the district of Kigamboni, urged various stakeholders to come out and support for the institution zilizoanzishwa since they have for the benefit of the Tanzania and will be the solution for farmers and the stakeholders of the sector Mama in the growth of the country's economy.
On his side, the executive director of the institution of Agro For me Foundation, Miss.
The year Shukuru has thanked the government for continuing to support the agricultural sector in the country including private stakeholders involved with these issues so they believe they will cooperate with all stakeholders including the government in developing agriculture and farmers in general.
"Through this institution will help to spread the agricultural education business and modern farming.
Using a lot of challenges including the changes tabiachi because it has been nchangamoto so that our presence and tumeliona is to see how to take appropriate measures including providing education and in the best way to various reasons including modern farming of "umwagiaji.
Explained Miss.
The year Shukuru.
Miss.
The year Shukuru added that, until now, officially launching it reach imekuwapo more than one year in the country, where good enough is prepared to help small-scale farmers to between farming and agriculture is trade and agriculture is this because they believe will help grow the economy through the agricultural sector and reduce poverty while kikitengeneza employment to the most Tanzanians.
On his side, one of the stakeholders of agriculture in the country who is engaged fruit farming including Mapapai, the lady Angella Kavishe has commended the institution because he believes will be more support to the farmers who have been wakijikita at all times normal farming or the only indigenous.


