
This war of the government and doctors Ikome now Jul 16, 2012

Our country ingali sadness in the conflict between the doctors and the government.
Is iliyochanganyika sorrow and fear and doubts.
Suluhu of shake hands it hasn't been found.

It is sad, because this is our country, wanaogoma is our doctors and inayogomewa is our government.
Is the citizens of this country with agonize and even lost their lives due to this strike.
This is something kuhuzunisha so much.
It offers kuitia smudged our country.
In the past there are tuliosisitiza, and here narudia insisted my position as a Tanzanian ninayeipenda my country, that there is no other way to end of this crisis, but it is through a friendly and brotherly;.
Must confirm to sit at the table as one of the Tanzania and kuitafuta solutions this crisis for the benefit of our country and its people.

For now, each side unamwona his colleague is the one with the wrong.
Therefore, each side umejichimbia handakini and develop "" war fighting.
The truth, in the war there, and the winner, because if the nation, all of us tumeshashindwa.
And we continue to fail more, because our people wanaangamia for lack of reliable treatment.
Basically claims of doctors is primary and yanazungumzika.
And the government is primary and zinazungumzika.
So, both sides can talk and reach an agreement.
It's not a matter of wisdom for now for the doctors to continue with their strike during the talks doors haijatiwa komeo bronze medal, and not wisdom likewise to the government "kugomea" talk with doctors on the pretext that the issue is in court.
I and religious leaders walioisihi the government to cancel that counsel and kuimaliza this issue in the talks.
It is good and it is wise to the doctors now wakatangaza, for the benefit of our country, to postpone their strike immediately and get back to work serving the Wa Tanzania for all the heart.
To do so even in difficult conditions that, during the efforts to reach the right time and the government continues.
Why, any strike is something of a loss.
Every day there are still going strike means a loss for the country and its people.
Is a loss of money and life.
That is why both sides should ensure are meeting at and find solutions shake hands.
And there twendako kutatokea, if a disagreement between the government and the doctors, then, the Party of doctors to start now to think how to run a difference and good migomo this now.
For instance, in government kuishinikiza ingewezekana starting with hospital strike for one and not the whole country.

Ingewezekana also not for the whole hospital but several units while the service in other units continue.
Even lingewaletea also difficulties that citizens and by the government in kuishinikiza discuss and doctors in improving their interests.

But the strike this "Wild" because the strike of the whole country to contain the dangerous health "" to the nation.
Tusifike tukachangangia place to make our country themselves iende kutambaa due to migomo.
I have been able to write, that is the truth, that almost every Tanzanian anayeamka in the morning, or is a patient or has a family, relatives, or a friend who is a patient.
Therefore, there are millions of Wa Tanzania with agonize every day and different types of diseases.
Is very depending on the size of the Tanzania with medical services offered by our doctors.
And in our country, the doctor is a very important friend of a citizen.
It is a very bad thing, when the government inapoingia in the conflict and doctors.
Inapoingia in the conflict and friends of the citizens.
There is no anywhere in the world citizens wakatokea kuwachukia doctors.
Therefore, is pestilence also when the government inaposhindwa different to its citizens and the doctors through talks and to an extent of doctors to strike.
In our country, a treatment for money for aliyesomeshwa walipa taxes and for many years anahitajika so much.
Physician assistant medical anahitajika so much.
And even if angelikuwapo the assistant to the assistant surgeon, and the traditional angehitajika so much.
, same heads and found midwives, nurses and their assistants.
Those all anahitajika so much.
In these countries of ours, the government hazipaswi kuwatisha to work and even chasing the doctors.
The final that only to happen when all the other ways of different finishing and resolve conflicts and doctors zitakapokuwa zimeshindikana.
And why ishindikane?
Well, Wa Tanzania we would like to see this war between the government and be ikimalizwa doctors quickly as they shake hands.
Nasisitiza again, for now, is the biggest on both sides in this conflict to recognize that for now the ongoing tension hautatoa the winner, is because, in what happened and is now, all of us, as a nation, tumeshindwa.
This is the time of kutanguliza wisdom and wisdom.
All to do, but the way the mujarabu kutanzua this crisis that exists now is the talks in an environment of kuheshimiana, then.
God bless Tanzania, God bless Africa.


