Promises to show how the finals of Europe?
APR 13, 2012

After a long lament the soccer lovers in the country of being unable to see the English Premier League with many lovers in the country, TBC One wakaleta liberation kuionyesha to direct the league at least for some of the match.
Even if those matches tulizoonyeshwa hazikuzihusisha of wars of Manchester United, Chelsea, Arsenal and Liverpool but tumeziona direct all teams zikicheza and the other as well as another match zisizozihusisha those teams four England with many lovers in the country.
For that tunasema thank you very much TBC One and or wasirudi behind.
More than the English Premier League, TBC One wakituonyesha have been the Spanish League and various competitions including the soccer inside and outside of our team of the nation, JK Boys inaposhinda and Taifa Stars inaposhindwa!
For all that tunasema thank you very much TBC One.
Together with those thanks the sincerely, I say samahani to the center of the public television kuwalaumu due to mateso wanayotupa in the implementation of the good that issue kutuonyesha different match of soccer directly.
Wakitangaza the premier league soccer in England directly through their period in the global Swahili Idhaa soccer, the BBC London have been wakitujulisha one week before that which is the match wangeionyesha directly.
BBC continued to do so until the morning of the day of the match broadcasting within the period of this week.
Contrary, TBC One have been doing very secret about the match kuionyesha directly for the week.
Wanapotangaza, that announcement and are very few times where wanaoliona huliona kibahati luck.
I don't know why hawatangazi earlier and with enough time to know that many, maybe itakayoonyeshwa match is the 5.00 hours Monday night between Everton and Middlesbrough.
The results of that "" privacy is for many soccer lovers kulikosa wangehitaji during the match that score.
Tunalowaomba another samahani kuwalaumu is the act of kutuhakikishia that watatuonyesha direct certain competitions which his schedule is very easy but wasitekeleze that promise fully.
For example, in the competition of the European nations this year in Switzerland and Austria, TBC One walituhakikishia wataonyesha the competition directly.
Tulifurahi so much and our love and our respect vilipanda them is very high.
Suddenly, our love and our respect to them vimeshuka fast just two days after the start of the competition.
After kutuonyesha the first match between the hosts Switzerland and the Czech Republic, the media reports ikaja iliyofuatiwa and a series of advertisements of business.
Those advertisements yalifikia time to start the second match between Portugal and Turkey that has been eagerly awaited by many of the Tanzania than the first!
What's, that match haikuonyeshwa and TBC One contrary to the promise of showing the competition!
The second day of the competition, it's not the first match of the hosts Austria and Croatia or the second match in Germany and Poland seemed in the TBC One us.
Sorry to tell them that the incident of the second day arrogant lilijenga hatred and big soccer lovers in the majority of this country by TBC One to ilichowaahidi educational.
The hatred inajengeka to see TBC One their inawachukia that arrogant inajengeka to see their inawadharau TBC One.
Utampenda and respecting anayekuchukia and how kukudharau?
Kudharauliwa area is more serious.
These soccer lovers of Tanzania wanachukiwa kunyimwa walichoahidiwa but to recognize that can kuvumilika but it is difficult for them to persevere the kutojulishwa arrogant reasons for those changes.
The more that bad.
TBC with the TBC One television, radio and the National TBC TBC FM together with proximity and the newspapers of information today and Daily News Tanzania citizens unable to tell them the whole what is unable to fulfill his promise to fully inatafsirika that is a big arrogant to citizens.
There is any reason is well citizens wajulishwe than kunyamaza alone and to be seen as "watatufanya say because what during the service itself is free of"!
Completely acceptable in the basis of good service to the customer (good customer care).
For these two days, the streets complaints against TBC One has been very big.
Many saying it's the right to show the competition kingepewa another country a television station, maybe TBC One wamezidiwa a burden!


