
Fear of the child of Zari Lady keep YATANDA Kufia abdomen

Urban news, for now, is the debate warning the streets and on social networks that the current girlfriend, the Mbongo-Fleva, Nasibu Abdul "Diamond Platnumz," Zarinah Hassan "Zari boss The Lady" can kill a child who is in the stomach as a result of his behavior of to wear shoes with deep visigino (High Hills) in this period of the pregnancy.

WALICHOKISEMA fans

Some of the fans, especially the children in the city wanaosadikiwa that and love and Miss Tanzania 2006 who is also Bongo movie star, Wema Isaac Sepetu (Team Wema), who had once served as the and of his romantic relationship with Diamond, wamemnanga Zari saying to wear his "Hills High kokoko" kumminya can stomach during the walk so that's kitoto kufia abdomen.

Doctor talks, AFAFANUA

Following those claims heaviness, the day before yesterday peace lilizungumza and the doctor popular in Dar, Godfrey Chale "Doctor Chale" who was forced to explain about those allegations.

Peace: "Sorry dokta, tumelazimika kukutafuta due to yaliyosambaa words, for now, here in town.
Diamond has his girlfriend is pregnant.
Now together with his shoe, anavaa pregnancy.

"Therefore wanamnanga that can kukiua kitoto located in the stomach because the dark shoes, muscles

Anabana inakaza legs and stomach.
There are "truth?

Doctor: "First of all is not true.
A woman deep dark shoes during pregnancy hakusababishi stomach child to die.

"Though, it is pregnant women

Wanavaa should not be shoe because, wanapovaa wanatanua muscles, and their weight.
Therefore becomes if someone aliyebeba a burden on the head, with the pregnant ".

ATAJA facing him Zari diseases

Doctor Chale continued set that, pregnant woman anapopendelea to wear shoes, deep akishajifungua and the body ukapoa, atakabiliwa and four diseases.

"First ataugua legs.
Second, atasumbuliwa and problems in the visigino.
Magoti problems will get the third and fourth ataugua back.
That is why you can found a woman becomes the beauty, good legs, but if he was akibeba cargo or to wear shoes dug deep during the pregnancy inaota meat at the back, legs "" "kiazi.

AONDOA HOFU

"Therefore, as the community has fear that a pregnant woman atamuua a child who is in the stomach because of to wear shoes that fear, deep change, but those four problems yazingatiwe niliyoyasema," said that the doctor.

For WOTE women

"But these effects is not only for pregnant women.
Professional research umegundua that, a woman has the ability to walk an average of 10,000 steps per day.
Therefore to wear shoes with deep visigino strong makes a big step to be used to walk one more.
Now you will see the effects of walking 10,000 steps.
This car who it does not matter.

"His results cause muscles neurological in the legs, kiuno, back and neck to do a lot of work to try to equalized weight.
Work that normally hufanywa and visigino, "concluded that dokta.

Diamond what

Peace, the day before yesterday searched for Diamond through its network of WhatsApp and them to ask the bad anachukuliaje claims "" of Zari:

Those "are only.
You know this world famous ukishakuwa litakuandama everything.
I am more naangalia before, and what I will do.
As words even in the cloth "water.


