
Karume "mpuuzi" painful truth, but its Nov 29, 2012

This article itahitimisha my evaluation on the 8th general meeting of CCM, held in Dodoma since November 11 until November 14th this year.

Because the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) party is usually vinachanganya vimbwanga dollar, its people and believe that every after a general meeting, CCM usually inazaliwa afresh.

This faith imejengeka due to the fact that, before the general meeting, there is a sign of the group migawanyiko and several plans to their agenda zishinde.

Due to the control of government organs together with uliopitiliza fanaticism, those plans are usually inakwama and making the many people believe that CCM has themselves, and those themselves usually wanaifanya izaliwe afresh every after the general meeting!

The history of this thinking is long, and the victims (victims) of this strategy in recent years is Salmin Amour (Komandoo), Elder John Malecela, Doctor.
Gharib Bilal, Samuel Sitta and now Edward Lowassa.

In the previous years wanakumbukwa Mzee Aboud Jumbe and Sharif Hamad.
Vacant because, this strategy of new life to give CCM are usually very unawaathiri Zanzibar than Watanganyika.

President Karume "" nonsense and his vice chairman as completing his term, retired President peace Karume alikaribishwa giving his advice on closing the meeting.
Gave a speech, which is now called kipuuzi there and the Magogoni Lumumba estate.

There is no aliyetarajia that Karume angesema that day the words that the amount of the chairman Jakaya Kikwete "has never admitting that he is happy to see that extent" as alivyomwona that day.

Several times his speech ilikatishwa and people waliomzomea amalize and and wanted to sit.
Ikakumbusha during this chairmanship of the Benjamin Mkapa during wanamtandao of Kikwete when they were wakimzomea everyone who wanted to question the use of bribery in that meeting.

Elder Joseph Butiku anaikumbuka this and official he wrote a letter to the chairman Mkapa.
Itukumbushe that this zomea zomea haikuanza and CHADEMA in the meeting.

Alipozomewa so much, President Karume akawafananisha wazomeaji surprised by the fish!
There are claiming, President Karume was very kalewa Konyagi that day.
Whether alilewa or hakulewa; is mpuuzi or not mpuuzi; to me is not news.
Important news is given to speak what he said that minute.

Karume spoke about his card the ASP (Afro Shiraz Party); he demonstrated the purpose of ASP; akamwuliza Doctor.
Shein as he has a lot of his card the ASP.
One of the purpose of ASP akakumbusha that is to protect the freedom of Zanzibar and his people.
Then akahoji those wanaowazuia their colleagues wasitoe their views about the union.

Akamkumbusha President Kikwete that gave permission everyone aseme anachotaka during the process of giving the opinions of the new constitution.
Akahoji how comes now wanakamatwa others to give their views.
Karume way CCM akakumbusha ilivyopoteza some of the counties because of kupuuzia views of the citizens.
Akakumbusha the issue of shifts between a member of parliament and the representative in a certain region.
Wazomeaji they did not to hear the wakamwimbia these Taarab "uamsho" uamsho.

I say even if the open nilichoka nikakaa outside the hall while speaking, Karume said meaningful things than the speech by hours and honorable others.
For a short period, Karume aliuzodoa unaoabudiwa dictatorship in CCM zinazoukabili United; noted dangerous; he reminded the news of the turn to lead this country issues and two countries; and much more said from his heart that ASP haijafa because its members who are still alive.
CCM tumeze or tuteme, that is the truth from the Karume, who now called absurd and women Nape Nnauye.

Kulialia and kulalama kulizidi very much for three days, Wa Tanzania walishuhudia delegates more than 2000 wakilialia and complaining inside the hall.
Chairman alizindua uliaji and was received by the delegates at the official that are not in the house to sleep visitors and in vehicles.
Kivuli of the Party of Denokrasia and Development (CHADEMA) kiliwatesa so much the members and leaders to make the loss of direction and start careless insult.

Haikutarajiwa that the chairman and angeingia in the trap, when alipojikuta anawatukana opponents and especially CHADEMA for calling them "mature people," or when inside the NEC alipojikuta spends a lot of time to decorate Nape Nnauye because he knows kutukanana and CHADEMA.
Even when alipokumbushwa and his friend that it's not a must kuitukana CHADEMA kuijenge CCM, he aliishia saying "wamezidi let Nape" awashughulikie.
Inayomshinda work him, he is the best aifanye Nape.
As Mzee Rashidi Kawawa seen by the teacher, Nape is how to Kikwete!

Elder mkorofi from South upper he asked, how can it be CHADEMA to be a threat to the CCM than corruption and bribery you are a threat?
CHADEMA how can it be a threat than "unduguneizesheni" unaotafutiwa the opportunity to be identified in the constitution of our party?

He said, how come the chief advisers of the chairman of our party about the issues of the party, not forums, but it is the security people waliojaa fitina?
Analalama this and was okay and many who are complaining for three days of the meeting.

Membe: Alimzamisha Mangula; Amemuibua again.

The position of Bernard Membe in politics of this nation in the days to come it was in a very difficult exams.
The former camp his friend Edward Lowassa ilipania kumzamisha but akaokolewa and Kikwete and his family.

Kikwete helped to change the schedule for the voting process, during his family (his wife and her child) walihaha every corner to seek votes for Bernard Membe.
This National one day litadai to know the truth of the hostility of these people in a third - Membe, Kikwete and Lowassa.
The name Kikwete limekaa center deliberately.
He is the key to this the paradox.
This tuliache for now.

Mzee Philip Mangula, akaibuka suddenly as the vice chairman of CCM Mainland.
Is this group who lililomwingiza network at the State House Kikwete lilidai alilitesa so much during the kampeini and decided to kumtosa just after Kikwete sworn in.

Yasemekana, Bernard Membe, an experienced kachero and the essence of the strategies have natural network, told Kikwete that Mangula gave very difficulty, and therefore be dismissed from the position of the secretary general position of the party.
Haikuishia there, Elder Mangula he tried to kuibukia Iringa region as the chairman of alishughulikiwa strongly and losing and someone asiyefanana and CCM for all the criteria.

Elder Mangula admitted later that inside the CCM is leadership and voters when they again brochures, but they want candidates "" vipeperushwa.
Elder Mangula, every anapokumbushwa the activities of members of the network, usually anatania that he aliponzwa and special "" faili.

There is news that the Elder Mangula kaibuka by the hand of Membe.
That, several sessions vilifanyika Makambako between these two.
Whether to Membe willingly or kutumwa, is that they met and the agenda was the elections at the general meeting of the 8th.

Aliombwa apologized or hakuombwa, that is now the news.
The news is that, the general assembly has Elder Mangula as the vice chairman of CCM but chief matchmaker was Membe.
If this ushenga was for the benefit of the party or for the benefit of his network anaouunda for the purpose of 2015, is the issue of time.

If it is true, then it will be difficult for the party to condemn this networks kikongwe.
If the network of Membe is legal, of Lowassa illegal cannot be.
As Kikwete entered on the internet, it is difficult for kuifikiria CCM and the presidency without the internet.
And we have learned in bitterness that hauishii network in the elections because, after their person to be elected, that what is required is to benefit and the fruits of work.

Who failed to work, there is the evaluate where stuck and decided aluta continua.
It is the dream Kuambiana to break the groups during anayeshinda and continues to enter the State House and his group.

Mzee Mangula alizingatie only one thing.
Membe alleged to be kumzamisha after the elections of the year 2005 in front of Kikwete, cannot who change today and defend that is a good person anayekifaa party.
Why hakufaa 2005 under the chairman huyuhuyu?
Membe is the one that, the chairman is the one that, the party is what what and Mangula is the one that!
What kimebadilika made Mangula asiyefaa the year 2005, afae in 2012?

Kinachoonekana but hakizumguziwi waziwazi, it is true that Kikwete and Membe rival / companion are seeing their Lowassa that now is more than the presidential candidate of CCM, 2015.
To them, Lowassa has turned into a party that; ameiteka CCM in front of their eyes and believe that the Mangula atawasaidia kuiokomboa CCM prisoners that is in the hands of Lowassa.
Kikwete and Membe hawajiulizi is what makes him kimemjenga Lowassa kuiteka CCM.

The act of kumkimbilia former enemy "" them and their party that come to help them build the party walichokibomoa for their hands, hakieleweki.
Many we thought, the general meeting ungepata the opportunity to assess this situation, instead tukaambulia kulialia and vijembe and a program that.
Tusubiri another or special general meeting of the 2017.


