Majaliwa ataka defaulters kushughulikiwa revenue U / National

It has been written by Evance Ng'ingo

Imechapishwa: 12 September 2016

Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has called for better use of the system of cutting of electronic tickets to enter the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam and wanting to watakaohujumu that service kushughulikiwa.

Majaliwa made the statement in a speech read on his behalf by the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye he launched officially the system on behalf of the prime minister at the National Stadium yesterday.
In his speech that Majaliwa said that the system will help set the revenue entry fee to the field due to its transparency kupambanua in income to the concerned day.
He said that a person cutting deductions already ticket Revenue Authority, the Revenue Tanzania Football Federation, TFF, together with the deductions club every type of the deductions that day yanajulikana and therefore there is no doubt that the system hinders the theft of funds entries.
"This is a system that has brought liberation of the highest in the whole issue of entries on the pitch which has been a big problem for a long time, people have been wakijiibia income through their wanazojua but for now this system is the savior of soccer in Tanzania and the government in general," said.
He said that the system will help noted reports of every person atakayeingia on the field that day.
Moreover, at the launch Nape being given to the cards on the pitch President John Magufuli, the Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan together with the Prime Minister and other leaders big resulted in which has been requested.
Previously before welcoming Nape, the secretary general of the ministry, Professor Elisante Ole Gabriel said that 20 machines using that system zimefungwa at that stadium.
He said that under that system, the user can increase atakayokuwa today his money in a card to the field where for now those cards are offered for free.
"Previously who currently manages this service company to enter the field here was iziuze to cards on the pitch to 10,000 shillings but wanatupatia cards for free while the user only anaiongezea funds that will be required to enter the field," said Ole Gabriel.
Project manager from the company Selcom, Gallus Runyeta said that those card zimewekewa a modern system of security reasons which unalinda its use while adding to ensure that it meets the need of the market, Selcom has 16,000 agents in the whole country involved in its services.
On his side, the president of TFF, Jamal Malinzi urged those involved to ensure that more education is provided by Wa Tanzania in order to know the use of that stadium.
Also said that soccer clubs in the Premier League zinategemea milangoni revenue in the system that now is a must to keep in mind the legality of the deductions zinufaike club.
"Ninapendekeza the existence of a system of open and especially in doing the whole issue of inspection of accounts of revenue so as to ensure that every unanufaika side, because many clubs depending on the revenue milangoni zinajiendesha against to see that this system umewakosesha revenue," said Malinzi.


