
Billion 15 / - preparing young people Tanzania of industries

It has been written by special correspondent

Imechapishwa: 09 December 2016

Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said that the government has set aside 15 billion shillings for the purpose of providing training to more than 2,500 youth in order to build their ability to be able to participate as vinavyotarajiwa industries to the strength in the country.

Almeoa that statement yesterday night in the celebrations to the provision of the award for the best employer of the year 2016, that took place at the International Conference Center (JNICC) Julius Nyerere, Dar es Salaam.
The awards ziliandaliwa and Tanzania Employers (ATE).
Said the government has started kujielekeza in providing training in the sector priority to consider the national development plan as agribusiness, oil, gas, tourism, transportation, sewing and skin products.
Said the efforts are ongoing in other areas to employers to have a wider scope of getting the staff with appropriate skills because the government recognizes the importance of having their strength with skills and great skill with the aim of increasing productivity.
In another step, the Prime Minister spoke about the challenges inayolalamikiwa and employers of the presence of various charges offered by the Authority for different government ileile that wanaitambua and already the process of identify all the laws zinazoonekana delay investment together with the business environment in the country.
"Our aim is to continue improving the environment of doing business in the country so that they can attract more and this process, it's being dealt with by the ministry of finance and planning.
We mvumilie and mshirikiane us in law to continue kuziainisha zinazokwaza business so that we can kuzijumuisha at the review, "has said.
However, advised all employers in the country to continue to do their work in accordance with the law so as to avoid conflicts that's not necessary at workplace.
"When we say you don't Only Work Here, it means work in all sectors of production and the provision of better services in the country, whether the private sector or in public service.
I urge my brothers, Tanzania, wekeni nadhiri that in the year 2017 mtafanya work for their efforts and strategy to increase productivity and efficiency at workplace ", he said.
And the minister of state, the office of the prime minister, policy, parliament, labor, youth, employment and people with disabilities, Jenista Mhagama urged employers to help put inspiration in an effort to provide training for the purpose of the experience and increase skills to give way to the graduates to get experience in their areas of work.\, even so, he said he recognizes the importance of employers and employees in the implementation of the policies of the development of the country especially to increase employment through the industrial sector by 40 percent by the year 2020, the success of the program yanategemea the contribution of employers from the private sector.
Congratulated ATE for recognizing the importance of investing in human resources especially for giving awards in the area of developing talents, where he urged the next award waongeze a criterion of finding aliyetumia employer to increase its resources to its employees who are the source of raising the productivity and business competitiveness.
And the executive director of ATE, Doctor Aggrey Mlimuka said the aim of preparing the awards is to recognize union members with effective policies on human resource management in various institutions and member companies in the country.
He said the awards zinafuata methods of scientific and a professional approach to look at the importance of human resources in a big company and small, medium in order to improve skills of the workers who work with dedication places of work.
Doctor Mlimuka said the awards also zilijikita more in checking important areas of human resources, the leadership, the administration, human resource management, to help the community together and to be responsible in the community, the quality and production.
In another step, Tanzania Beer Company (TBL) has won a total of the awards for the best employer of the year 2016 provided and ATE.
This is the second consecutive year by TBL to get the victory which has resulted from what was described is his competence of making a good and safe environment workplace through by creativity unit of human resources.
The second winner is CocaCola first during the third position ikwekwenda by AngloGold Ashanti Geita Gold Mine and the second is Coca-Cola Kwanza Limited.


