
Nchimbi opens up after the CCM Kulikata name is the parliamentary'anyiro the

The former Minister of Internal Affairs and the member of parliament for Songea town, Doctor.
Emmanuel Nchimbi (pictured), has opened up about several things and explained that the Wa Tanzania should understand that their conflicting opinions in the political parties is common in a country of democracy.

Doctor.
Nchimbi said that yesterday being one day after the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Songea district town to reject form for the parliamentary contest aliyochukuliwa and citizens with claims that it was not a imekidhi the criteria.

"Ninachowambia Wa Tanzania tuzoee their conflicting opinions, their conflicting opinions in our parties is common in democracy, we can in their conflicting opinions tukifika recommendations, but one thing tunakuwa decisions support tuliyoafikiana decisions that and is a good procedure for building" democracy, he said.

Doctor.
Nchimbi who was being interviewed by the Radio One yesterday morning, he said democracy kutoelezana the truth is not democracy but democracy is the true freedom of thought.

He said that a person who does not like to CCM calm is a person who is good haitakii country and that he does not plan to relocate the party because amelelewa and CCM.

He added that reports that he and several cadres have been made by the party about the statement released by the time of the selection of the presidential candidate that not satisfied with that process is not true.

"Me I CCM and still nitaendelea that CCM due to the basis of imagination and policies, now if there is someone anayewaza that I would leave the thoughts that CCM is very foolish", he said.

Political committee of CCM Songea district last Sunday refused to receive the form of vying for the parliamentary aliyojaziwa Doctor.
Nchimbi and some of the residents in haikukidhi claims that the criteria.

However, last month, Doctor.
Nchimbi aliandaa a meeting of members of CCM, the leaders and citizens and thanked them for the waliompatia cooperation in his leadership then that he will not vie again to announce to the parliamentary seat this year.

Doctor.
Nchimbi was akitajwa that maybe atagombea in Mbinga West constituency which Nyasa District that had Kapten likishikiliwa and the late John Komba, who passed away earlier this year.


