Samia bursts Mwanza

Information

It has been written by our writer, Mwanza

Imechapishwa: 19 November 2016

Vice President of Samia Suluhu Hassan has a period of one month since yesterday by the directors and senior officials of Ilemela district moving in the district and stop to sit in another district on the lack of a house of the government.

Vice President, gave the directive in his speech to the citizens and the directors of the municipal council of Ilemela who turned up at an event to launch the building of the administration of the municipality and handed over 1,074 desks that was given by the Parliamentary office.
The statement issued by the Office of the communication of the Vice President said, Samia has urged the staff to be close to their areas of work so as to be able to be close to the citizens and to help solve the problems and the problems that are facing the quickly.
While in the district of Nyamagana background in Mwanza region during the foundation stone for the project of the renovation of the slaughter Nyakato in Mwanza, the Vice President he ordered the leadership of the city of Mwanza fully to oversee the project of the renovation of the slaughter Nyakato executives watakaobainika sabotage and that project that will cost more than three billion shillings stern legal action can be taken against them.
The vice president made the statement in his speech to the citizens and the directors of the city of Mwanza who attended the ceremony to lay the foundation stone in the project of the renovation of the slaughter unaohusisha Nyakato improvement of the building of the slaughterhouses, Tangi of storing water, the construction of the cold rooms hosting the meat and the construction of a sewerage of treating yanayotoka at the slaughter.
Vice President also urged the Provincial Commissioner of Mwanza, John Mongella ensuring uundaji stands for the management of the slaughter which will improve the performance of the slaughter.
About the collection of taxes, the Vice President urged all directors of the council of Mwanza region to increase the speed of the collection of government revenue through electronic from different sources of finance that vitasaidia the implementation of development projects of citizens in the region.
Samia called for citizens to ensure receipt claim they buy different products, as it will help to increase the income that which yataelekezwa on development projects.
In his meeting the conclusion of her work-related tour of five days in Mwanza region, the Vice President Samia insisted the leaders and executives of Mwanza region to work hard in serving the citizens by concentrating on regulations and procedures of the public.
Warned that the government of the fifth term haitasika stern measures against officials and executives who will go against the ethics of the public service in their areas of work.
He urged the leaders of Mwanza region to oversee the fully to protect the state of peace and stability and take stern action for people who want to destroy the peace of the country.
Vice President amehitimisha her work-related tour of five days in Mwanza region to inspect, launch and primary placing stones in various development projects in the districts of Ilemela, Misungwi, Kwimba, Magu and Nyamanga.


