
May first iturejeshe on the basis of the responsibility of Tanzania, today staff join in the whole world in the celebration of the first of May which is used to talk about and assess the achievements and challenges that they are dealing in the implementation of their responsibilities.
The source of this day which began since the 19th century W in America and spread to Europe and then in the whole world are employees to oppose a long time for the work and wanting to have the right to be.
Employees were wakifanyishwa work for many hours sometimes 20 to reach a day.
Employers walilalamikiwa for not caring about the interests of the workers and even their work environment to an extent that many lost their lives while and young age due to the diseases caused by poor environment at work.
The first party was formed workers 1827 year in Philadelphia, America and his responsibility was to the existence of a special time at work.
Viliendelea the formation of the goal hilohilo and when it got to the year 1866, 30 parties vilikutana in Baltimore, America and create lililoitwa federation National Labor Union.
Three years later, was called the international meeting of the workers in Switzerland and the federation liliundwa of international workers.
1876 year another international meeting took place in Paris, France and is the first of May ulioazimia that itaadhimishwa as World Workers Day.
Since there claims of during the working yalipamba fire and even solutions ulipoanza yalijitokeza found, many things including unyonywaji, udhalilishwaji and poor living standards, therefore wanting the existence of the systematic changes to the workers control the main highway for the basis of accountability production so as to remove the capitalist unyonyaji.
The history of May first long is but only itoshe kutufahamisha that claims and the complaints of the many workers are century ago and have been yakichukua a new twist as one every challenge inavyopatiwa solutions.
For example, the challenge of the origin that produced the May first for working hours, although is still a problem in developing several countries, especially in the world, in a big way imetatuliwa.
The staff wanaelewa their term of labor and for institutions that his work require workers for a long time or all, there is the turn.
That has been a big challenge in the toiling years and is the interests and now there are suggestions that the tickets with the Sh750,000 be a month.
But there are also other challenges as a better environment of work, especially considering that sometimes a good salary is not everything to the worker because they are waliokimbia mabovu due to the environment of work and contrary, there are organizations or institutions which zimedorora due to the environment hayohayo mabovu.
That is why when we celebrate this day with the history of claiming the rights for workers, we are supposed to remember a saying that nakwenda rights and responsibilities.
We employees, from the public to the private sector we are supposed to asking everyone to his time as tunatimiza our responsibility as required?
As hatutimizi or there are the weaknesses, tuchukue step.
Tukishafanya therefore, is now the chest before tudai our eligible on the basis of the law.
We believe that been doing so, tutapiga quickly steps for economic development and the welfare of the employers and employees will be yamezingatiwa.


