
Boda Arusha put marks

It has been written by John Mhala, Arusha

Imechapishwa: 08 November 2016

The governor of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo has urged the loading passengers who are doing business travel using the known by the name motorcycle rider, having the points wanalofanyia area, work so as to control that use that means of transport commit crimes.

Gambo has given the order during the opening of the Road Safety Week.
The speech of Gambo imesomwa and the head of the district of Arusha, Gabriel Daqarro.
Ameiitaka road safety committee of Arusha Province to do everything possible to make it to ensure all motorcycle rider riders area points analofanyia work.
Gambo ameema right now, there is an increase of the transport to be robbery in the middle of the city of Arusha, therefore points to help with bad intentions.
Has said it will help to know that it is truly robbery being done by the criminals of true or there are some of the business people and work in partnership with the criminals that commit crimes.
"Must tupange effective strategies for all motorcycle rider riders to have a special mark of unalofanyia area so that work can be known criminals wajulikane and good people too.
Will help to know that those good motorcycle rider riders and those who are not good with the action can be taken against good unemployed "to the community, he said.
Apart from that, Gambo has urged the drivers in Arusha, driving vehicles to follow the law in place, because many accidents happening in the region and the non-compliance with the law including driving while drunkards and operations of the speed and caused the accident and murder people without fundamental reasons.
Has said that the police are supposed to oversee the road traffic rules and refused to take bribes because corruption is one of the reasons zinazoongeza road accidents.
Moreover, he said the road accidents have been zikipungua year due to the drivers to observe the law therefore it is a must to be sharp to administer the law so that the situation can therefore.
Has said in the last year statistics from January to October this year, were accident 2,011 but in the period of January to October this year in an accident had reduced up to 1,692 accident step that is satisfactory.
Police commander of Arusha, Charles Mkumbo said accidents have been zikipungua year.
He said that in the year 2015 accidents had reduced from 725 763 until this year, equal to five percent, normal accidents that had reduced from 972 last year to 911 accident this year and that is equal to 6.2 percent.
He said the accident motorcycle accident had reduced from 763 last year to 614 accident this year and that is equivalent to 20 percent of motorcycle accidents.


