
The wall of the house of one family four wajeruhi

It has been written by Peti Siyame, Sumbawanga

Imechapishwa: 13th December 2016

Four children of one family and the residents of the village of Mwela located in the Lake Valley Rukwa in the district of Sumbawanga in Rukwa province, have been injured after huge stones fell on the wall of the house walimokuwa are temporary sleeping.

The wall of the house ulianguka due to the heavy rain accompanied by strong winds that fell on the night before the day before yesterday.
Moreover, 23 houses have been destroyed by the rains that lasted for two hours while in front had several families have no shelter.
Speaking with this newspaper on the phone, the head of the district of Sumbawanga, Doctor Halfani Haule said the heavy rains that began two hours from four hours the night before the big tafrani stirred to the residents of the village.
Clarifying said that in the event that rain has been put up iliezua house 10, while seven houses have collapsed and its wall having six its wall zimepasuka where the number of livestock, including chickens and ducks it was not immediately known.
"All one family of four children have been injured after huge stones fell on the wall of the house walimokuwa are temporary sleeping and all walilazwa at a health center for treatment and wameruhusiwa," said Doctor Haule.
He added that were 22 families and more than one house in the country where now wamehamia in their houses which hazikuathiriwa and the rain as they spoiled renovating.
"Except one who is the widow of his house imebomolewa grasses and the rain, he stays with the neighbors, also if the government tumemtupatia gunia one donation of the maize and one debe and beans," explained.
Said he arrived in the country to witness the destruction ulisababishwa and the rain while the team of experts continues and evaluation to ibaini losses ilisababishwa and the rain.
The police commander of Rukwa, George Kyando, has confirmed the occurrence of the disaster, but he said there is no one person who died in the incident.


