
Ulimbukeni of Ulimbiki Aug 22, 2012 of Good Citizen in

To the Minister for Mikiki and makeke, street Uzitoni, Bongo.
Frank lover, has started the lover!
I nilifikiri tumekubaliana lets put my salary for the construction of our houses.
Now this idea of modern television limetoka where?
Ninapojaribu explained that other tulikubaliana unakasirika and refusing to receive phones.
It is true that rights lover?
I know you are you like to look at the ball good on television and Ulimbiki ulikushtua but other times... and kunisusa true is a way of solving the problem the lover?
After all the years this?
Eniwei, I don't even think that, let me niendelee and Ulimbiki.
And why Ulimbiki and not the Olympic.
Or it is because we have the ulimbukeni ulimbiki.
I am not mwanamichezo but true us we can do exercises for two weeks to tushindane and who performed exercises two years?
Our Ugali and sardines you can compete with special foods the athletes there?
Or we see that the number of officers that dominate inayoamua the number of a medal.
The officers oyee!
Usinishangae lover.
Even I was naibiaibia competitions, together with the details of the lives of players.
I am surprised to see wanavyojitesa to succeed.
But after kuibiaibia, I think the problem is not only preparations.
Even how people has tunavyowatafuta flaws completely.
Relatives alimletea one boss alifikishe boss proposal which he wanted to the minister of the tour and the games.
Niliachwa because my own home, I got the opportunity to read and have picked after kuinakili.
Let give your thoughts here.
Honorable Minister, after checking the participation of our athletes within the Ulimbiki, I request to extend my contribution of ideas on how to improve our participation and ensure that our athletes wanarudi and a medal instead of nishai.
Again, Honorable minister I believe that it is very easy.
Look there is what type of games and ask ourselves as our people can't play this game.
Throwing mikuki, throwing mishale.
We have the kind of people?
It's not that is part of our tradition fulanifulani tribe.
Tukipata those champions in their home and training them into cannot Ulimbiki and from and a medal?
This, there is the games Surface.
The makasia using the different types.
Madau and Ngalawa modern machines.
Our experts the fishing hawaingii here?
May go very far and vingalawa vidogovidogo, ukiwapa Ngalawa modern, who will be able to compete with them?
Objective target.
These are where our soldiers to fail to get even one of objective targeting at the international level?
Now akivamia enemy, are targeting where?
This without forgetting escaped.
Who has never see Haile Gebreselassie?
His hand umekunjika fulutaimu due to carry books during anakimbia going to school many kilometers.
Now became the world champion as a result of the exercise that.
We have how many children who are still wanakimbia many kilometers to school?
Potelea far they don't have to carry books but wanabeba bricks, or fagio, or kuni for the teachers.
Here there is no even one of the competing with the Kenyans and Wahabeshi?
And don't forget these women talent our sister.
The day before yesterday one nilimwangalia akipandisha buckets on the head.
Technique aliyoitumia is ileile wanyanyua weight in the Ulimbiki.
We cannot start the competition of a bucket to get our champions of going there?
And the youth that increase in sacks kuyabeba or buses in the market, or who are mkokoteni do not have the muscle to compete?
Sijamaliza Honorable Minister.
These youth of guta, bicycle and inayobeba ten times their own weight, receiving training a bit cannot compete in the bicycle race?
You don't know that their song your tribe which are very travel from... now.
And without forgetting our wadokozi these wanavyotimua wakigundulika races.
Nakuambia Usain Bolt hafui dafu in front of these.
Even before hajasimama those wameshamaliza.
And in that way he will not have the reason kudokoa again and he will be an example to all wadokozi others.
In your love of sports and nation-building, this nilinakili Basi lover meaning for true liked his thoughts, then nikairudisha quickly sitting room.
Again nilisikia car for the boss limefika therefore even me I had to run as Bolt itulie letter before hajaifungua.
And you know the boss did what?
Alipitisha eyes harakaharaka then akaikunjakunja and kuitupilia far.
"Pumbaf!
Who will do the work of searching for these as hawapewi many allowances for all the money provided for the purpose of sports?
Who is ready to abandon the stereotype "our games iliyoendelea white" and incorporate the ours kishenzi at the national competitions.
Guta race.
The lift up a bucket.
Mitumbwi competition.
Uwindaji competition and so on.
He wants tuchekwe?
Other people Mister.
Hidaya, let wiski bring my "!
Then even the relatives aliporudi to know the fate of his letter boss akaulizie go told the ministry walk akamwelezea then boss, mother while akicheka until akashikwa and kwikwi.
But you unaonaje lover?
This has no good idea truth.
The problem is that hatuthamini our people.
Tunabaki kushangaashangaa people from other countries, then say we are a poor country that is why... what out when we have the wealth of people at all?
That is every day tunadharau human resources, and sponsoring officer resources that is the reason why the number of officers inashinda completely the number of players themselves.
But it is the same in all our plans.
In the villages who anathamini ideas of a villager?
We have seen some plans inaharibika in us because they are ushuzi wajuzi and without knowing that their wajuzi of our environment is ourselves?
It's biblical commandment meaning were even ten commandment, those have miamia and unaposhindikana project wanatulaumu us wavivu saying, what I don't know.
Wanakera.
Otherwise, as we cannot to identify good people for the purpose of Ulimbiki, then tuanzishe Ulimbiki tunayoijua us our sports and unlike the world.
Napendekeza the competition the following: Plundering money.
Anayekwapua more quickly gets more medal.

Kusinzia for a long time during the parliament.
And also, the ability to give the speech for a long time.
Without forgetting our friends in the villages and the youth.
The ability to sit on the half bricks without kutingishika.
The ability to use the sentimita chaki piece of one.
I know those issues if can kuwachosha viewers but potelea far.
Our heroes get a kwelikweli.
Akupendaye more than your television, Hidaya.


