
Bishop amfananisha President Magufuli and Jesus Christ retired bishop of the church of Pentekoste (FPCT) Singida town Doctor.
Paul Samweli, has said the issue of the government of Doctor.
John Magufuli insisting on the payment of taxes and tax is ulekezaji of directives of Jesus Christ, therefore believers and Wa Tanzania in general, they are required to obey and consider that their responsibility.
Akiijengea strength to his point, he said according to the book of God kitakatifu Warumi biblical 13 msitari (1-14), shows clearly Jesus Christ alipigia debe the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).
Bishop Paul said in 13 Warumi kimeainisha that watoza taxes and fees, is the God that workers wapeni their rights, someone of taxes, taxes, one of the tax, tax.
Doctor.
Paul has said that the day before yesterday when akihubiri in the service of the usual that function was attended the commander of the police force in this province ACP province Debora Daudi Magiligimba.
Emphasizing, he said because all the blessings umepewa tax payment and the Almighty God, believers of various religious denominations, should be on the front line in order to observe the God of paying taxes established law without shurti.
"The government of President Magufuli this uhimizaji of paying taxes and fees, is doing well in our work ahead of religious believers and Wa Tanzania in general, is paying taxes and tax on time, so that our country can move forward development.
These issues of evading paying tax or fees, "yakomeshwe, he said.
Watoza about tax and tax Dk.Paul, said that in the Bible (Saint Luka 3 -12-17) says watoza taxes / tax waliagizwa wasitoze which will be a big inavyoagiza contrary to the law.
Clarified, he said the employees of TRA, in the implementation of their responsibilities, should levying taxes and fees according to the law, policies and procedures in place and not otherwise.
"Wakitoza taxes or a big tax which is contrary to the law, they will be wanamudhulumu Paymaster, that act not only human with hakipendi moral values, but also, it hakitampendeza Almighty God," said.
In the police force, Doctor.
Paul has said that in the book of 3 Warumi line of 14, kimewataka police in implementing their responsibilities, wasidhulumu someone or wasiwababikizie people false case.
Also watosheke and who are the salary.
"Commander yaliyotamkwa words and a servant of God Yohana, yanamtaka every police, aridhike and his salary.
Means to prevent him from becoming the request for bribery and likewise asibabikie citizen cases, but atatekeleza its responsibilities according to his contract of "work, he said.
Doctor.
Paul used that opportunity to commend the police force, Singida province in his efforts to control kihalifu actions that can progress kuhatalisha peace and stability.
"Unique Magiligimba kuazisha Nikupongeze commander for the new culture to talk and believers of religious denominations in their houses worship.
Also for your decision of controlling crimes before haujatokea.
Briefly you want signs of crime, occurred early before zishughulikiwe hazijaleta effects.
We are supporting tunakuunga church in this.
God akutangulie, "said Dk.Paul.


