
Shein aipongeza ZSSF to build a modern houses

It has been written by special writer, Zanzibar

Imechapishwa: 06 October 2016

President of Zanzibar and the chairman of the Revolutionary Council, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein has commended the efforts that are being done by the Social Security Fund Zanzibar (ZSSF), running the development projects with productivity, including the modern houses in the area of Mbweni.

Doctor Shein said, within six years of his leadership, ZSSF has done well for establishing several projects including the construction of the play for children Kariakoo Tibirinzi Unguja and Pemba, the construction of the memorial tower 50 years of the Revolution, together with the construction of the train will start next month.
In his explanation, when he visited the project of Mbweni the day before yesterday, Doctor Shein said that the construction of the modern houses is profitable and will have a big 252 houses including three rooms, four and two.
Previously, the executive director of the fund, Abdulwakil Haji Hafidh, told Doctor Shein that the construction of the 18 buildings floor is expected to be completed at the end of the year 2018 and is expected to cost 43 billion shillings.
The director stated that the project will have 18 buildings the seven stories which zitajengwa different for the third phase, which already the construction of five buildings with 70 houses.
He explained that in the initial stages, the organization limetumia eight billion shillings which continues with the construction of 55 houses have already got who are both buyers contracts with them.
Hafidh explained that the housing project for the purpose of Mbweni initially was planned to citizens with the income and under, and will be sold between 168 million shillings to 249 million, but it has been revealed that many people hawatazimudu, therefore the fund has decided to build low-income earners in the area of Tunguu.
Noted that, the first phase of the project, which includes the construction of five stories, will be completed on April next year and followed by the construction of another floor eight in the second phase and in the third phase of the remaining floor.
He explained that, have already started to look for both buyers who visited the different sections of the inside and outside, for the purpose of advertising while explaining that those houses will be and the areas of essential services including shops and the great hall of the modern.
That director said that deliberate efforts being done to ensure the construction of those houses, becomes more stable under the construction company "Dezo Civil construction Limited with its headquarters in Dar es Salaam.
Giving information when, walking in the construction of those houses, the manager planning, investment and research of social security fund, Zanzibar Khalifa Muumin Hilal, alimhakikishia President Shein that those houses are stable.


