
The work to the elders of Mbumba how big businessmen and those of between wakipigiwa were forced to phone and taking money.
Otherwise those criminals decided to follow in homes for the rich after kutokutoa warned police report.
In one story niliM chowahi kukisikia, businessman went to the police after being informed of the kind of visitors.
Police wakaweka trap and a few minutes before the hour incident police officers arrived to the security in every corner of the house.
They saw wakaondoka is secure.
After their officers, security guards to be rich wakagundua alibaki suicide in her room.
Walimwita and door knock without success even wakaamua breaking a rock.
Walimkuta while amefungwa hands, legs, eyes and mouth.
Walipomfungua akatanabaisha that all money zimeshachukuliwa.
And yet they had those officers, but caught in the shape of the officers.
In leopard skin of the sheep!
Most of the criminals of the type of eighty walipenda kustareiaka kuliibuka robbery of mpya. type namo popular in the city.
During walalahoi 'you mnakuywa your beer, just anaingia short person and attendant to call the drinks.
But hajatoa before an order is requesting the cooperation of the ones that are the world tallest people.
Wanajitokeza kwelikweli thinking that the world tallest people "andunje" had special work for them.
Contrary attendant, is telling apange boxes of beer with a length of those people.
The attendant in a group, to andunje anafungua lililojaa bag note and wanted the attendant ajihudumie payments.
That day wangekunywa people free until the following morning.
During the problems certain people walifarijika andunje by women.
Were wakombozi.
Them wakaleta new chapter "pedejee" anayemiliki majumba and vehicles, and the proud anayelindwa mabodigadi, and money for how anayemwaga streets anavyojisikia.
There is no former and down of alizipataje them to ask.
Now because there are many people wasiopenda to work but with the lives of recreation at the umbrella pedejee, they continue situation, because even if pedejee anafuja their property (of the public).
Ukamdhibiti when this one will then umewachanganya many.
It is an example of the table who had a lot of food amount of kukichezea.
Their aides affordable they kuokota makombo legs pao than finding chakulani chair.
Later kikageuka; many many waliohangaikia got position.
Wakagawana big equivalent.
There waokotaji wategemee what?
In the old when they have Israel utumwani Egypt being led from said they are best "ungetuacha utumwani; tulikula and kusaza" without thinking that makombo so wawekwe waliondolewa at the table eating their food.
In this, it's not a must tuingie ngumbaru.
Is clear and everyone knows tulitaka what type of countries since we attained Uhuru.
The state of mchumia juani eating his sweat lie.
Tanzania is not a forced him auctioneers and your sweat for the price anayotaka then akaliuze anayotaka market prices.
If he wants that it's not its akalime?
Yours work "" issue makers.


