
Makamba visits kinachozalisha factory using energy waste Tabora, minister of state in the office of the Vice President in charge of Integration and Environment, honorable.
Jauary Makamba congratulated Mister.
Leordard Kushoka for designing kinachotengeza alternative energy industry is friendly to the environment.
While in Tabora Province, Minister Makamba got an opportunity to visit the factory and said that the government is very values innovation and discovered especially which save the environment.
"Mister Kushoka nakupongeza so much, I could see your efforts through the television and decided to kukuita and help you" insisted minister Makamba.
In appreciating the contribution of the factory and the "Coming Kushoka" the office of the Vice President which helped make her Mister.
Kushoka to get the intellectual property rights of the factory.
Previously Mister.
Leonard Kushoka, the director of Coming and Kushoka Tools Manufacture Group has said that his factory has succeeded to employ young people to succeed and to invent 13 different technology that is friendly to the environment where until now, managed to reach more than 50 youths in the district of Tabora, Urambo Kaliua Municipality, Mlele Katavi and also succeeded in making them the use of stoves banifu yanayopunguza kuni and charcoal to 50 percent.
Also the factory has succeeded to invent a machine that has a capacity to generate 160 kilograms per hour by using a liter diesel 5 and producing an average of 1000 kilograms of alternative coal and also the factory has succeeded to invent the machine for drying tobacco using dry waste or all the remains of the harvest as maganda of nuts, randa of wood, masuke magunzi maize and rice.
Mister.
Kushoka has said that this machine used "ukaushaji has provided good results in the use of tobacco because an average of 3 kilograms of waste hukausha one kilogram of tobacco by using modern mabani" Mister.
Kushoka has asked the minister to help the company to get different training the best way to design and develop the production of alternative energy, especially in the countries that are doing well more.
"To come up with official Kushoka" was founded in the year 2000 and temporary registration in the year 2013 and given certificates (TMC / CO / CBO / 48).
Minister Makamba while in the province of Tabora also got an opportunity to visit the Nzega and Igunga District, ending his tour of the provinces in the country with 10 environmental challenges.
And Lulu Mussa, Tabora


