
The government, the industry to employ 1,000 youth Morogoro

It has been written by John Nditi, Morogoro

Imechapishwa: 28 October 2016

The efforts of the government of the fifth phase of increasing employment to youths have started to bear fruit after the signing of the contract with the industry for making the sports clothing Mazava Fabric & Production East Africa Ltd of Morogoro to providing technical training in youth 1,000 about modern technology.

That agreement has been signed in the office of the governor of Morogoro, through the secretary general in the office of the prime minister (policy, parliament, labor, youth, employment and the Disabled), Eric Shitindi on behalf of the government and the manager of the factory, Nelson Mchukya alisaini on behalf of Mazava.
Shitindi said under the procedure, already 360 youths have completed the kind of training at the factory in Tanzania Tooku Garment located in Dar es Salaam with the aim of the government is to give the youth 27,000 different training for the purpose of enabling them to get jobs in different parts of the country.
In the event that also ulishuhudiwa and the secretary general of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Doctor Adelhelm Meru and the director of the special unit of the special region of investment in the country (EPZA), Joseph Simbakalia and the administrative secretary of the province of Morogoro, Doctor John Ndunguru.
"An incident of the signing of the agreement is important in our country where the intention of the government to see the nation linapiga a big step in the economy of industries and in order to attain that, they have to have employees with the skills to serve the industrial sector... business attractions is not the only tax is even having walioandaliwa skills workers who work in different industries," said.
He added that, that opportunity was made by the government to the youth from different parts of the country and that so as to get pumped advertisements in the newspapers and other organs and there will be no borders of the reputation of education.
He said the office of the prime minister is the itakayogharamia the training, while Mazava Factory will provide his area and experts in order to teach young people selected to join the training in various phase.
Doctor Meru said that is great changes in the issue of investment in the country, where the government has decided to teach his youth employment and industries so that they can have already vitakavyojengwa and also to be self-employed themselves.
He said the office of the prime minister, in collaboration with his ministry has started a special program to teach the youth vocational training to write and sewing clothes for the cost of the government.
Doctor Meru said those youths will get the sewing 1,000 training for a period of three months each, something phase litakalowawezesha investors in the sector of the textiles industry to employ young people with skills.
Manager of the industry for making the sports clothing Mazava Fabric & Production East Africa Ltd, Nelson Mchukya, said after signing the contract they are ready to receive them 100 youths from November 15, this year.
The manager said the government itagharamia those youths allowances, the fare, food, while the industry will have the responsibility of providing the expertise of the technical training sewing clothes using modern machines through in trainers.
Mazava factory Fabric & Production East Africa Ltd is owned by locals and Winds Enterprises (Hangzou) Ltd, where it is involved with the manufacture of sports clothing and its market to be a foreign countries, especially America.


