
The councilor Vingunguti will land the health problems to buy beds, expanding the laboratory to clinic have passed one year since the Deputy Mayor of Ilala Municipality, who is also the councilor of Vingunguti, Omary Kumbilamoto ametekeleza half and the quarter of his promises in his ward on the side of his position.
When he headed to end one year since he came to power, has said he has been using his personal efforts without waiting for grants from the government to implement its promises.
Kumbilamoto those were spoken by his office in Dar es Salaam while speaking with the writer of this news, where he said "as the councilor, he thought it use a its efforts in collaboration with stakeholders from in his ward to implement his responsibility because waiting for grants angechelewa.
Explained badhi of success on the side of the health sector aliyoyawezesha in his ward that is, reducing the lament mothers by sending the beds in the maternity clinic in the Vingunguti.
So as to avoid the problem of darkness in that clinic, amepeleka genereta feni one, four, and one television in order to get different news.
Kumbilamoto also said amefanikisha purchase of two vehicles for something wagojwa kilikua long-term concerns that led to some of the wagojwa dying for lack of travel.
In ensuring that the issue of cleanliness in the maternity amewajengea toilet, the inside in the ward together with one machine washing machine donation of wagojwa.
Also, has said that in this year amepeleka a machine for pressure, diabetes together with a torch of detecting the disease tons (mafindofindo) mapanzia kufunikia wagojwa wakizidiwa or the death.
Moreover, said amefanikisha the expansion of the laboratory that clinic.
"On the side of the health sector that is the great and good niliyoyafanya and as for my citizens niliahidi nikiingia that I will solve all the problems of the health side," said Kumbilamoto.
However, he says on the side of education, apart from the donations from the government, aliyoyafanya great him, is one of the machine to hydroelectric documents (printer) in secondary schools including Vingunguti and to pay a debt of 500,000 electricity which led the school lacks electricity a whole year.
Without forgetting his promises to the youth that councilor ametekeleza one of his promise by giving them 14 sets jersey in soccer teams groups and exercise groups of morning (joging clubs) in his ward.
In the implementation of the social activities Kumbilamoto said, has been able to revive the two public toilets that outside of the slaughterhouses and escaped.
"This is a half and the quarter between issues that niliahidi personally fulfilling, for this year, I believe those nimeyafanya years to come I will more than this in my" cooperation of citizens, he said.


