
Cereal factory, to be built in Dodoma sunflower oil

It has been written by Lubasi, Dodoma, special

Imechapishwa: 29 September 2016

Dodoma province will get kusagisha factory grain kukamua and sunflower oil.
250 people are expected to get jobs in the factory.

The executive director of the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), Professor Godius Kahyarara made the remarks when handing over a check of 3.7 billion shillings to the director of the board of Nafaka Mazao and Mixed, John Maige, with the aim of buying the machines and the grain usagaji of kukamulia sunflower oil.
Zitafungwa machines in one factory.
Speaking after handing over the money, Professor Kahyarara has said that the provision of those funds, goes hand in hand with the policies of the NSSF investment invest the contributions of its members in the projects that benefit.
Has said the policy of industries is to take the NSSF industries vinavyoshirikisha many citizens.
However, he said a primary thing that factory, kitakapoanza working is a must to check the market inside and outside also.
The deputy minister, Office of the Prime Minister, Labor, Youth and Employment, Anthony Mavunde has said the factory will provide many jobs and the economy of the farmers utabadilika and grow.
The board of director Mazao with cereals and Mixed, Maige has said the board with cereals and Mazao Mixed in collaboration with the NSSF project will.
The industry will have the ability to 60 tons of maize kusagisha per day and kukamua 13 tons of oil species in a day, where the project is expected to generate employment of 250 directly and other job more than 6,000, including farmers.
Maige has said the establishment of the factory kusagisha kukamua grain and sunflower is the results of the implementation of the policies of the government to raise the economy of the country's economy and industries.
Director of legal services Azania Bank, Geoffrey Dimoso said that bank inashirikiana and the government to implement the policies of the economy of industries.
Said that bank, is on the way to achieve the farmers.
District commissioner of Dodoma Town, Christine Mndeme said through the establishment of the factory, many jobs will be present and even litapatikana market.


