World Cup scandal in Brazil Jun 21, 2014

June 12, this year's competition to vie for the football world cup yalifunguliwa in the capital city of Brazil, São Paulo and is expected to continue until July 13th.
The whole global unakodolea eyes and discuss these matches for inspiration and emotions, while the international company zikizoa billions of profits as a result of this incident.

The media vimecharuka begin to announce these matches.
Kisichotangazwa so much is news about the citizens of Brazil who for a long time now have been wakipambana by police and soldiers who are using all kinds of weapons, bombs of tears, shot, marungu, grunedi and so on so as to prevent demonstrations yaliyoambatana and the world cup.
These anger have a year ago and have continued to until the day of the opening when thousands of demonstrators gathered outside the stadium.
During the audience were planned to enter the stadium, the citizens of Brazil were wakilaani how money 14 billion dollars zilivyofujwa in 14 building stadiums.

The government has organized a 57,000 military and police who wamevizunguka 100,000 soccer fields together with the players and their hotel grounds the exercise.
His results of the whole city Sao Paulo limegeuka the war.
Inakisiwa one billion dollars will be used in the defense and security, even so, yameendelea demonstrations across the country.
The army yametumia bombs of tears and shot but walishindwa block angry citizens.
Instead wakasababisha two demonstrators and injured three journalists on the opening.
Zikapanda anger and the citizens wakalazimika using stones, while themselves singing "FIFA tokeni" in our country

These anger zimesababishwa and several things, together with skandali associated with these finals.
For example, the company Minas Arena Stadium have been given the right to own the Minerao for a period of 25 years.
Claim that they have invested in kuujenga 300 million dollars.
But kinachofichwa is that 180 million among those they were given as a loan from the government of Brazil (BNDES).

That is used public funds to invest in the project of the citizens, then now they want their "" warudishe money by renting the stadium for 25 years this is only one example.
There are other grounds which vimejengwa this through the loans from the bank BNDES.
President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil has been claiming that the full cost of building the plots is 4 billion dollars, but the real cost is approximately 14 billion dollars which is a big part of the bank loans from public.
Citizens have worried that the money hazitalipwa, something that limezidisha their anger is not the referendum surprise brand recently has shown that 71 percent of the citizens of Brazil hawaridhiki.
This is a big increase from 55 percent last year.
It is because feel that billions of money spent in the World Cup, is it is better zingetumiwa in public services like education and treatment.

The world cup normally is expected to connect the citizens of Brazil and to give a picture of the development in the world and at the same time promoting tourism.
Contrary, there is a view that have the national economy usiokidhi lililogawanyika kitabaka and needs of the community.

Started projects, like sports fields and has cost more than financial infrastructure ilivyokisiwa.
His results government has entered into a loss during the few people wamejitajirisha.

For example, the Brasilia cost three times more than expected in the budget.
It is because a lot of money has been squandered and a few who wamebuni documents showing the fake use.
This is a modern stadium which umepewa the name of the famous player, Mané Garrincha aliyependwa so much and the citizens of Brazil.

The year 1983 died while the poor despite his contribution in the field of sports.
His coffin lilisindikizwa and millions of citizens his lovers.


