
Etihad "defeats tafu" jogging Sokoine

18 September, 2016

Etihad Airways, with its headquarters in the United Arab Emirates countries over the weekend have helped the Sokoine station jogging, Tanzania Club in Temeke district, in Dar es Salaam.
Etihad iliyojinyakulia three awards of the quality of air services for this year, has given a sports equipment, after some of its workers to participate in the friendly matches and different games that took place at the Uhuru Stadium, Dar es Salaam.
More than 90 children of the station, most of them from the age of 10 years gathered up to 14th in that match the friendly matches involving the football and netball for boys to girls.
The bonanza lililenga strengthening unity and health to the youth.
A sports center of Sokoine kilianzishwa jogging Club on August 20, 2014, with the aim of helping young people from the age of 7 to benefit and through 15 games and exercises run away.
Thanking the agency, the founder of the center, Felix Kauta Massawe said; "We thank to receive this great support from the Etihad.
This equipment vitatusaidia in our daily activities of the station.
He added; our station, the sports has approximately 120 students who need the necessary equipment at the training tunayowapa, this is not only to get money at the sports education but also inawaimarisha living through the games and exercises "they receive.
Speaking about the donation coordinator of Sales and Marketing of Etihad Airways in the country, Grace Kijo said; we believe that these boys to help the tunaandaa national youth with energy and we expect to help more sponsoring at games and other events like this in the days to come.
He said the organization, limedhamiria helping and bring changes to the community makes the total where its activities.
"Our contribution sincere shirikia of this is to ensure linasaidia zilizoanzishwa efforts to promote sustainable development in the community and improve the lives of the community, including the education of children, and enable their lives, he said.


