
Ladai kuangamiza 100 rebel force area of up to Bujumbura, Burundi nearly 100 rebels were killed after severe makabiliano Jumhuri at the Central Africa and Burundi close to the border of the Democratic Republic of Congo, according to the army taari.
An officer of the level of force ju in the Burundi who did not want to name litajwe, said that attack that took place and the rebels who hawakutambuliwa lilitibuliwa after five days makabiliano North of the capital city of Bujumbura.
"After five days of jesh makabiliano of the rebels who were with weapons and soldiers walifurushwa after invading the Burundi.
For a total tumeua insurance rebels and four captured between all the rebels who were converted 121 province of Cibitoke from Congo, "force officer, he said.
"In those attacks tulipata President of Burundi, Nkurunzizasa. 60 gun five rocket, and more than 100 shot," said and added that the Burundi limepoteza force two soldiers.
Hazikutolewa more information related to those attacks while the army likidinda providing information about the rebels on the basis that the military operation is still ongoing.
Government officials who saw the Burundi together with said Pierre number / AFP that a group of rebels who entered Burundi hawatambuliwa last night from the Congo Mashiriki Kivu province, an area known to be strongholds of groups of rebels.
Wednesday, the number of those killed had 35, including 34 rebels and one of the country's government rundi. undi walioenga and movement the rebel National Liberation Forces (FNL) lilikiri being involved in the previously to the border of Burundi.
FNL rebels, who is popular in developing while attacks singing songs of religious, walitia signed the contract of the peace of the government of Burundi in 2009 and since the time walibadili their group that the political party.
The rebels who are still attacks they put a continuity on the claims that their requirements yalipuuzwa, claimed killing six soldiers in October last year.
After that attack, the rebels to develop waliapa attacks until during the general elections held in the June 2015.
The group in addition limekanusha that lilihusika in the recently and to withdraw from the blame from the killing of soldiers in Burundi.
Burundi, "ilifufuka" from the political chaos in the 2006 after the civil unrest miaka13.
July 2014, the defending human rights in the world, Amnesty International lilisema kinachotawala party in Burundi has been kikiendesha the process of threats against those seem to be to go against the government.


