
Rumors waenea someone's wife luxury when they were doing a man love the side

Rashid Mkwinda

A rumor has emerged in the cities of Tunduma and Vwawa Mbozi district where it is claimed that one woman who is the wife of a person, a resident of the areas Isangu in Vwawa in that district was amenasa during a love and a man from outside.

The writer of this news arrived in the country and found huge groups of citizens while wanaelekea in District Hospital in Vwawa while heard to umedaiwa wakisimulia the tragedy which affect someone's wife and a man, a resident of the town Tunduma.

Those citizens, most of them were women walisikika wakieleza that the woman is a resident of Maparachichi Isangu village located on the outskirts of the city of Vwawa in Mbozi district who does his business between Tunduma and Vwawa.

It was explained that the couple the wife and the man (their names hayakufahamika) were wakionywa several times and not maapenzi that are not legal, where the husband's wife owes noted that the relationship between the couple for a long time.

It was alleged that she was akimuonya her husband who took an axe and empty kulikutanisha and mpini while explaining to be as true was hashiriki love uthitisho outside marriage will be an axe and that mpini who aliuhifadhi their suicide wanakolala under the passenger bed.

Those witnesses continued to claim that the day that the incident that left his business as usual towards the border so Tunduma maparachichi in town of Tanzania and Zambia where he met with his Hawara.

However, those groups of people walishindwa revealed the truth about the incident by explaining the names of those involved with the doctor in Mbozi district Dkt.Charles Mkombachepa, denied the existence of those people in the hospital and explained that it is uliovumishwa rumors since morning.

Doctor.
Mkombachepa said that the groups of people have been yakimiminika at the hospital for a whole day of the other day from morning until evening wakiulizia event lisilokuwa and the truth.

However, after realizing that there is no event that rumors spread that those people ukaendelea according Referral Hospital in Mbeya due to the hospital, a situation that also failed to Vwawa separating ilikanushwa and nurses and employees of Mbeya Referral Hospital.

Rumors that kind has been ukienea several times in various parts of the country, where in the beginning of the eighties Buguruni in Dar es Salaam that arose rumors of a woman aliyemwekea drugs her husband and baby who change rumors that until now is people's minds.

Likewise the year 2003 in Mbeya rumors emerged the doctor arrested for one who was at the breast and deducting women, something that also halikuthibitishwa.


