
Qualify, 35 universities wajiunga irrigation farming

It has been written by John Nditi, Malinyi

Imechapishwa: 09 October 2016

The graduates of universities more than 35, have partnered with the residents of the villages of Malinyi district, the province of Morogoro running the irrigation farming of various crops including onions and rice.

Those statistics have been issued by the head of the district of Malinyi, Majura Kasika speaking to journalists the day before yesterday.
He said his district intended to revolutionize green kukipa inspiration for irrigation farming and fully implement the strategy (BRN).
He said that those graduates have partnered with the citizens of the village of Itete, njiwa and Itete Mianzini, Mtimbira Division, in the district for a cultivation of rice, onions and matikiti through irrigation schemes in Alabama that was built by the central government at a cost of six billion shillings.
According to the Kasika, the district has a total of 127,761.06 hectares zinazofaa for agriculture among those 27,884.04 hectares zinafaa for irrigation farming and 99,877 hectares .02 agricultural have an opportunity depending on the rains that is 55,429 hectares is used for agriculture right now.
He said in recognizing that a big opportunity itakayotokana and the schemes, the youth and the graduates of universities joined by establishing groups and using them that big project of the irrigation Itete products in the production of vegetables, tomatoes, onions, rice matikiti and so as to lift their economy and of the district.
Kasika said irrigation scheme Itete with the size of the whole area 0000 hectares as litaendelezwa will benefit many youths of inside and outside of the district including groups of people of another age to produce three times a year in especially rice, onions, matikiti and tomatoes.
Some of the university graduates who turned up in the irrigation farming, Jasper Muganyizi, Upendo Mwakatobe and Iddi Bectro, at different times, said that they have decided to run the modern agriculture, irrigation onions, rice and matikiti so as to increase their income.
"Cultivation of scientific is for now, so the education we got in various sectors is one of the ways to use in agriculture, because irrigation farming is correct and hakisababishi losses," said Muganyizi.
Mwakatobe urged the university graduates kutokimbia agriculture because agriculture is different and now the old and also to encourage the educated women to ground themselves in the agricultural sector, for their own benefit the economy.


