Kenya: The strike of prominent mental patients wakimbia, zakwama service

December 6, 2016

Some of the patients who were getting mental treatment at the hospital concerned Mathari providing medication to the patients located in Nairobi, Kenya, wamekimbia at the hospital due to the strike of doctors.
The report states that, those patients more than 100 that have used the opportunity to strike away at the hospital.
Doctors in that country, they are in their government strike wakiishinikiza iwalipe cumulative additional marupurupu the salaries and other yaliyotiwa under the agreements signed in June, 2013 and a solution for the year 2015 on improving the working environment.
The strike umeathiri all hospitals are facilitated by the government in the provinces and the Referral Hospital including the Kenyatta National Hospital and MOI Town Eldoret.
Senior officials of government health, recently made an emergency meeting of the night in order to prevent the strike but hawakufanikiwa.
Health services zasimama in another step, thousands of patients in public hospitals in the country, wanahangaika without treatment due to the strike of doctors and other health workers.
The report states that, other patients in public hospitals in the country have been forced to return home, to look for treatment in private centers that its cost is about.
The year 2013, the health sector in that country took some of its services under the authority of Wajir, that step prompted public hospitals that under the supervision of the governors.
However, the Ministry of Health inasimamia still the National Hospital, including Kenyatta and MOI which is located in the western part of the Kenya.
Since the health sector it under the supervision of the health service, Wajir seem to be kudorora, nurses and doctors doing migomo every time complaining about the poor conditions of work.
Tension between the Government and Wajir about providing the necessary equipment in health facilities also imeyumbisha the health sector in that country.
The ministry has been ikiwasihi kutogoma health workers in order to save the lives of patients, to give them time to assess the right time, but the request is yet to ignored.
There is no reports that were released by the Wiara about the state of treatment in public hospitals, where some of the governors kuwafuta came all the work that will participate in the strike.


