Lets stop tension, Doctor.
Mwakyembe, Ray C waungwe support this war Aug 21, 2013

For a period of several weeks and months now, as a nation tumeendelea to zimekuwepo (which for many years the recently) about the proliferating of business of drug trafficking.
That this business imekomaa and having a great network in the country is the fact that is obvious.

Is the truth or several issues, which or haihitaji having any degree to the Tanzanian kuyatambua; yanafahamika and as yakifanyiwa work will be a big step to overcome this disaster.

First, that is obvious truth is that for now, the drug abuse is a problem that is limeathiri Wa Tanzania very many especially young people.
In the estates of cities like Dar es Salaam, Arusha and Mwanza and others, for someone anayejichanganya and people of different types atagundua obvious how several people just the users of these drugs.

If what the musician who has so much here in the country, Rehema Chalamila, popularly known as Ray C television station when he did an interview in the Clouds recently, many people have been affected badly (addicts) and drugs.
There are students of various levels as secondary and universities, wafanyabiasha, artists, employees and many others, including the wanaoheshimika so much in the community.
Others are known clearly, while others are making for great uficho.

Together with that, many of the Tanzania (it is estimated 200 people) to jailed and even kuhukumiwa death in other countries like China and Hong Khon (according to the media houses in the country and internationally) after being arrested wakisafirisha drugs is an illustration that the situation is bad.
Victims of all this is, brother, sister and aunt our wajomba; and it has been a great shame to our nation.

The truth second about this disaster is that he is a big, among the many Tanzania mintarafu this disaster.
That, there are many concept zinaenezwa (intentionally) about this issue to an extent that even those with good intentions in the fight against this disaster wanavunjwa the heart.

For instance, who are and interest in this business have been using propaganda in different platforms, like the media and government agencies to spread the concept that deal with this disaster is very great danger!
In this, is used examples that ati the state of business has reached that is a great network, to the extent that it can even cause kuparamia fighting to bring down the government!

Those these propaganda kuuaminisha want public that the situation for us here is just as it is in other countries like Mexico and Columbia.
In these countries, to donate all effective measures for early deal with the growth of the business mizizi (if this is being left ikijiimarisha here in our), a situation that has caused the bad.
In those countries, social this business is bigger involving many leaders in government, the presence of big groups or army "" (outside of the government, only for the purpose of protecting the interests of this business) and people with great force, financial institutions and the influence.

Those with an aim to weaken the war against this business in the country wamediriki even involving the deaths of some of the people that vilitokana and those people "puts itself kimbelembele" kulisemea this disaster.

In general, even if there is only the cells truth in these claims, that is obvious is that are used in propaganda and many claims kukuzwa efforts to weaken in many countries dealing with this disaster.

Moreover, propaganda these are sarcasm by various equipment for the government, and even the Tanzanian community in general because they have the aim of showed that the participants of this business are above the law and that they have reached an kutoguswa with any authority whatsoever.

Another truth about this disaster is kutowajibika as required by the leaders who are at different levels, in the fight against this problem.
For a normal, as several people are there and they have the authority in the ministry and various departments (the ones with the relationship of one by one and this issue or otherwise) like immigration, the police, the safety of the nation and others but has continued to be in a bad state, this inaibua several questions.

It is possible with this authority is between who benefit from this business, and thus removing is equivalent to participate in the mirija cutting their benefits.
Or, they can be HAWANUFAIKI but not the situation and not fulfilling their responsibilities accordingly, something that is kukomaa for this business.


