
Unfaithful members is dangerous for the development of the supporters of the CCM party campaign launch of participating in the general election on the grounds in the desert in Dar es Salaam last year.
Picture of one of the ways inayoleta success in the issue anything so as to the existence of the trust to the concerned wanaoshughulika and that issue is making sincerely.
Human beings who becomes and M the contribution to the community of bringing development must have five major issues.
Those issues are skills, the truth, justice, legal and integrity.
Someone with those things five can kuhesabika that is someone aliyekamilika and can give the contribution of his development in the society.
Someone missing those things issue of bringing private development even his dream will do not fully explain inayomzunguka helping the community.
In the political parties integrity of members is the most basic thing that is being managed kukipa development since it is the party concerned, even kikaweza to hold the power to lead the government.
Members can bring integrity were not misleading image has ukadhani that followers who can kukipa your party, but when you win elections ukaambulia patupu.
Therefore, lack of integrity in the party is dangerous because the party can kikadhani has many followers and yet the real situation is not so.
Is an essential thing to members that integrity in their party and ensure hawakigeuki in any circumstances even through private.
Integrity to the party chairman of the union of parents of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM), Abdallah Bulembo said recently that there are members who is ndumilakuwili in the party.
Bulembo, who is a member of the executive committee of CCM, speaking to university students who are the followers of the party in Zanzibar, said that there are members who night wanageuka that CUF.
Leader who led the campaign to achieve the victory of President John Magufuli in the general elections that took place on October 25, 2015 said that issue is a bad thing.
Bulembo urged CCM members to be truthful and wasitumiwe to sabotage the party and kukizorotesha in his responsibilities.
It is possible explained Bulembo could be because there are any leader to because he was saying something that hajalisikia.
, the truth is that the issue of ndumila kuwili is not a new issue, but it is in politics, and which halifai in all activities related to the community.
Together with that Bulembo talked in his party of CCM, but the issue of not having a party for honesty halifai mfuasi of anything.
Therefore it is good for people who have decided to come out to support a certain party to do so sincerely of their hearts and they should not be vigeugeu.
That behavior should be avoided so as to bring the development of political parties and make sure there is peace and stability in the country.
Acts of going against the instructions of the party or use by another party and sabotage your party is something lisilofaa and must liepukwe because can endanger peace.
It is good if anyone feels it cannot be honest in his party alichoamua join ajiondoe and to remain without having any political party because there is no wrong to be so.
However, the state of that afternoon becomes as the sheep, but the night unavaa skin chui is dangerous and can even lose your life.
Have a political fanaticism and there are other people can make to persevere if the actions of their party and kukihujumu wakagundua that issue.
In any type of environment that occur and concerned party. anaathirika hujikuta, something that can be avoided.
Kuifuta CUF in recent days kumekuwako and words of some of the people who want the Civic United Front (CUF) on claims that kifutwe kinachochea and endanger peace in the country.
Those who give those claims some of them while politicians claim that CUF has been ikiwashawishi citizens kuipinga Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (SMZ) and not relating it.
Before the general elections in Zanzibar uliofutwa CUF was inashirikiana and CCM to form the government of national unity (SUK) iliyoiongoza Zanzibar for five years since 2010.
However, the government of national unity ilivunjika after at calling for a repeat elections in Zanzibar uliosusiwa and CUF and its results kukaiweka power the government of CCM.
Apart from to dissolve the SUK that re-election expedite ulivunja ulioafikiwa and CCM and CUF who ulirudisha the state of peace in the country and to cancel the hostility uliokuwapo between followers those parties.
Good of Zanzibar between the CCM and CUF uliafikiwa after an agreement between the former President of Zanzibar and the deputy chairperson of CCM Zanzibar, Doctor Amani Abeid Karume and the secretary general of CUF, Maalim Seif Shariff Hamad.
Due to expedite SUK and kumezusha in division of Zanzibar and the state of political tensions to citizens imerudi afresh, where some of the Zanzibar people wanabaguana in providing social services such as kuuziana products.
In the current situation, the thoughts of wanting to kuifuta CUF is not a solution to the problems that are Zanzibar.
In any circumstances even itokee Msajli of political parties to make kuifuta CUF does not mean that the situation itaifanya Zanzibar to be safe politically.
There is no even a bit that possibility CUF followers if their party kitafutwa and artist if they joined the CCM party kinachotawala.
However, without doubt those followers can support another party wakaunda or a new party and going as usual and wakaongeza opposition by the ruling party.
In the view that is good for those with all the thoughts of wanting the CUF it is abolished. wakayafuta those thoughts as they do not any contribution to the current political in division in Zanzibar.
If there is a true intention is good for the politicians of Zanzibar to think afresh and find alternative ways to finish the political conflict in Zanzibar.
Democracy, an act that can bring peace and stability in the country is to ensure that every issue linafanywa by concentrating on the basis of justice.
It is a must that each event is held in the country to be validity without having any injustice to some of the people or to give privileged to some people.
In other words in the country is supposed to have a true democracy where every citizen atatimiziwa his rights without any conditions.
The author is a journalist and senior analyst of the political issues and jamii.Anapatikana by email sanani07 @ yahoo. com and opinions @ mwananchi.co.tz


