The treasury bill certificates waiva scandal investigation

It has been written by Our Reporters

Imechapishwa: 25 September 2016

A few days after the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa promised to the government to look at the possibility of kuishtaki ICBC Standard Bank of England about the corruption that took place in a loan of 600 million US dollars (1.2 trillion shillings), which the government of using the Government borrowed treasury bill certificates, it has been noted that the investigation about that issue is in the final stages.

The bank is alleged to give a bribe of 6 million US dollars (12 billion shillings) as a bribe to officials of the government to get the business in the country.
Prime Minister Majaliwa speaking to this newspaper recently said the government itafanyia work views of various stakeholders including members of the bank to wanaoshauri convicted as a result of the scandal.
"Us as the government tutaifanyia work and when tutakapoona tumefikia in providing information to the public about the implementation of the advice we will have therefore," said the prime minister.
Speaking with this newspaper the day before yesterday, the executive director of the Institute of preventing and fighting corruption (PCCB) Commissioner Valentino Mlowola said the institution is continuing with the investigation that is in the final stages in collaboration with various equipment for the investigation within and outside the country.
That director said the investigation will be completed recently, the government will be in the best position to decide about the bank or convicted kutoshtakiwa about that issue.
"Any time this investigation will be completed and therefore the issue litapatiwa solutions and the official report will be presented to the citizens in order to know the fate of their money taken illegally in this issue," said Mlowola.
It is alleged that on March 8, 2013 the Tanzania Government borrowed money 600 million American dollars equivalent to 1.2 trillion shillings from outside for the support of the Standard Bank of England, which is now called Standard Bank PLC ICIC by putting treasury bill certificates.
The loan with high interest rates started to be paid in March this year and utalipwa until the year 2020 to 9 mikupuo inayolingana.
By the year 2020, Tanzania italipa that debt, together with the interest rates a total of American dollars 897 million shillings (almost 2 trillion), but even so the various stakeholders including members claim that the loan umegubikwa and corruption while the bank ikidaiwa to give a bribe of 6 million US dollars (12 billion shillings) as a bribe to officials of the government to get the business.
After emerging in that scandal, Takukuru they used the report of the Institute of major investigations of England (SFO) in to take the necessary action against the Tanzania who are named in the saga.
However inalalamikiwa that Team SFO investigation against the Standard Bank of England.
Speaking about that issue, Kigoma Town Member of Parliament, Zitto Kabwe (ACT-Wazalendo), said that the interests of the Tanzania in the scandal, great will be if the government will be able to succeed to demonstrate that the Standard Bank ilihonga to get the business in the country.
Mentioning those benefits Zitto said, "one, it will be a lesson for the international company that Africa is not place kuhonga and get work and kutoadhibiwa.
Tanzania, two haitalipa this loan and its interest rates.
We will tumeokoa more than 2 trillion shillings in the national debt and direct the money tulipe tulizokuwa interest to serve our citizens in health and education, "said Zitto.


