17 December 2012

Watupwa 30 years in prison for kulawiti kunajisi,

Luppy to'al, police and Raphael Okello, Musoma.


Two people have been sentenced to 30 years in prison after being found guilty of kulawiti kunajisi and two children aged 12 in two events yaliyotendeka different provinces of Dodoma and Mara.
In the first incidence Kongwa District Court, Dodoma province ilimhukumu, Tuesday Hassan (22) sentenced to 30 years and 30 viboko defeat to found the mistake of kunajisi a child of five class.

Aluehukumiwa that punishment is a resident of the village of Liganga, Chitego Ward Nzoisa Division.
That judgment was made yesterday by the magistrate Kongwa District Court, Godfrey Pius, after being satisfied with the evidence that was given.

Previously it was alleged by the prosecutor Mwandesha inspector of police, Maulid Manu, he explained to the court how the child alivyonajisiwa while akitishiwa killed if atapiga noise.

Claimed that the incident happened on November 1, last year two and a half hours on the night in the village of Liganga, Chitego Ward and Nzoisa Division in Kongwa district.

At the same time, the District Court of Musoma Mara Province, has sentenced sentenced to 30 years, Adam Godfrey (27) of the daughter of 12 years who is a student of the Nyambono Primary School District Musoma Villages.

Reading the judgment yesterday, the senior medic magistrate Musoma district, Richard Maganga, said the decision was reached after being satisfied with the defense of the prosecution, therefore anamhukumu Adam Godfrey, using that sentence.

Previously the prosecutor of the government, Jonas Kaijage, he explained to the court that the defendant alitenda that offense in the village of Sagana Musoma villages May 11, he forced himself this year where the mbinti contrary to the maumbile.

Kaijage said Godfrey was akinywa alcohol indigenous to the mother of the girl, so after taking claimed he did not have requested money ampe his child will go to him in his home in order to give her an money anazodaiwa.

Claimed they were a way, Godfrey alimtishia the knife the girl then kumlawiti.
The case ilifikishwa and be read for the first time in court on June 12, this year.


