
These are the ones that the reasons for many young people to fail in the interview a time many youths facing the problem of kutokujiamini an amount of being unable to use their talents, the challenge has been the source of the majority fail in the interview (interview) while seeking work.
Last week nilizungumza and the director of one company kusaili employees from Arusha, Ismail Nassary who alinithibitishia that the ability of Tanzania to explain himself in the interview is the problem despite that many have appropriate education and experience at work.
He insists that his company usually takes the responsibility to teach how to explain the surgical went to the interview.
Kutokujiamini said it is a big problem for the majority of the Tanzania, something which makes wanazozitaka stop employment.
Continues to clarify that one of the questions that are usually hayajibiwi as required is the msailiwa linalomtaka kujielezea know (question: Tell US about yourself).
Says this question is the only chance of msailiwa kujinadi himself in accordance with the reputation which he them and why he should be given to work instead of another person.
He says most wakiishia explained their names, all schools walizosoma until graduated, then to conclude by saying "wakakamatwa" 's All.
That director says the question is linamtaka wide msailiwa together with other issues explain its reputation in anayoiomba.
For explanation of the director, it is clear that there is still a big a vacuum the professionalism and confidence to students who have different universities.
That is why there is still fear of implementing the agreement on the EAC Cooperation movements free of people (Free Movement) and employment because many position will be taken and the Kenyans and Waganda who speak English inawaongezea confidence.
Something kinachopunguza to believe in themselves Wa Tanzania is uzungumzaji fasaha of the English language.
Have many are skillfully required but fail to prove that they know and have the ability to work.
Interview you need the preparation and work well know unayoomba.
When you get in the interview and Ukawa hujajiandaa enough amount utashindwa and remained only kulaumu that got the work they gave bribes they have a great capacity than you.
The appearance of the clothing during the interview is very important.
There are two major benefits to wear well during the interview; first, inakuongezea confidence.
Several research zimebainisha that wanaopendeza people in front of people wanajiamini more than those who hawapendezi.
Second, it gives you an important points during the interview.
Unapoingia in the interview room, the first step wasaili wataangalia your appearance.
Usipowavutia wataamini that work hufai unayoiomba even if you're all the other reputation.
It is important to have a good appearance during the interview in order for you to get unayoitarajia position.
Apart from the commitment to get the work currently, even people around you that your positive view on.
Together with all important preparations, confidence is the weapons that will kuvusha during the interview.
And the things vinavyompa someone bravery during the interview is work well know anayoiomba and know the English language in order to communicate well and wasaili.
The English language has been a problem for many of the Tanzania when unapofanyika audition for the language.
Despite that Tanzania tunatumia the English language learning in secondary education and many universities, hawatumii this language in the talk.
For example, some of the work provided these days watakwambia qualifications to confirm the applicant and to write the English language.
Talk and write is two different things.
Many of Tanzania English know the writing but talk properly, is the problem.
's hatuitumii that is caused by the language from time to time in talks.
Tujijengee must have a habit of from time to time to speak English, especially to students themselves in a good position to use that language.
Together with the importance of our language Swahili rare, still cannot kukipuuzia English because kimefunganishwa and the system of our lives.
By acknowledging that weakness, the government introduced the Employment Agencies (Taesa) who one of his responsibilities is to prepare the youths to interview.
This agency is important but many youths and a hawaitumii as their employers.
There is still a chance to learn and making adjustments, whereby hapajakaa well.
As a youth jitahidi learn something new every day especially to read the books.
Tujijengee behavior of reading books from time to time.
Peter Elias is the author of this newspaper.
Is available on 0763891422 phones.


