
The names of 4 more rich people in Tanzania

Large economy, of the United Republic of Tanzania more depends on agriculture for approximately 25 percent of GDP and 85 percent Exports.
Moreover, Tanzania has minerals like gold, diamond, charcoal, uraniamu, steel, copper, Tanzanite n.k.

Tanzania have created so many rich, and these are big four according to Forbes magazine.
And these millionaires wametudhihirishia that everything kinawezekana, and every person ananafasi of only to be rich aweke effort in his work and keenly

4) Reginald Mengi - value: $560 million

Mister Reginald Mengi is the owner of one of the major companies that owns the media of IPP Media Group, with 11 stesheni of newspapers, radio and TV and internet networks.

3) Said Salim Bakhresa - value: $575 million

His age is 65 years, Nay eye started himself up to there.
This businessman ameanzisha Azam TV, with the system of paying the TV channel in East Africa.
Left the school at the age of 14 and start kuunza Mix (Urojo) and later to open a small restaurant and then moving to the business in the agricultural produce.
In four decades ago has added its sales to 750 million American dollars, and to make Bakhresa Group that one of the major companies in East Africa for having more than 5,000 employees and to focus more on food and drink products, loading of products, and ferry services of petroleum and transportation.

2) Rostam Azizi -Thamani: $1 Billion

Rostam Azizi is the first rich happened in Tanzania.
During the month of May in the year 2014 aliuza its shares 17% he owning the company in the Vodacom.
Likewise has company ownership Caspian Sea Mining, which is involved in uchimbani of minerals in a big company BHP Billiton as and Barrick Gold.
The company of the Caspian Sea Mining inamiliki also a big part of the land with the possibility of having dhabu, metals and minerals like copper here in Tanzania.
Moreover, Rostam has shares in the Port of Dar es Salaam, where he is together with Hutchison Whampoa and he has a big part of land ownership here in Tanzania, Dubai, Oman and Lebanon.

1) Mohammed Dewji - scored Worth: $1.3 Billion

He has 40 years old, and that is less than 50 the rich of all African for a series of 3 years now, has a deed 75 percent of the MeTL Group company, concerned with the country here in the industries that was started by his father.
Mohammed Dewji aliibadisha houses about good for making products that agriculture production factory.


