
The commission of controlling the medicine abuse YASITA assign them publicly heads of MIHADARATI

Rashid Mkwinda

After the silence of approximately ten years since people alleged to be that champions and transportation and the importation of Drugs in their names to be taken by the former head of the province of Dar es Salaam that Yusuf Makamba, the commission to coordinate and Drugs in the country has continued to slug to mention the names of those champions.

Reports of the presence of the 12 champions of Drugs ziliibuliwa in Mbeya province in the year 2014, where some of the users of those drugs, popularly known as'mateja "claiming associate with those drugs waliyapeleka the names of 12 veterans by Makamba who until her retirement has never couldn't fail to those names.

Speaking at a meeting with journalists in the office of the head of Mbeya Region, Abbas Kandoro, about the reports of the marking of drugs in the country that is taking place tomorrow in Mbeya, an analyst general from the Commission on Drugs January Ntisi said the names of those champions yaliwasilishwa in the commission and they are continuing to be undertaken to get a confirmation of their names an "" yalifika tuliyapokea commission, but we cannot couldn't fail, some of them and their case walishakamatwa zimefikishwa in our court and the ones outside, that there are procedures related to the international rules about this issue, "" said Ntisi.

He said that there are some who walitajwa their names who are still should be that however their control has been is difficult because they have a great network rich people with great potential of using modern equipment including Boti ziendazo speed.

"" Have a great network, using ziendazo Boti pace, we continue to look for in collaboration with some of the foreign countries, this issue needs attention, "" Ntisi explained.

About was released by some of the suspects of Drugs and vidhibiti drug vinavyofikishwa after the high court and kuoneka are fake director of criminal procedure and the genes Gloria Omar said that all the information to the general chemist zinazofika zinafanyiwa work in accordance with the evidence.

"" Zinafanyiwa Chemist zinazoletwa report to work professionally and was confirmed, according to the evidence, "" said.

Speaking on the phone from Dar es Salaam to fight for human rights activist and party's War on Drugs Pastor William Mwamalanga said that the Commission for Drugs does not have the capability again to help this problem and instead zielekezwe strength in the unit of the police force.

"" Imefeli Commission in this, the suspects that were mentioned being involved with illegal drugs ten years ago returned fast and wanaedeleza these businesses, Airport has been passing the Julius Nyerere uchochoro mihadarati, "" noted.

He said that between the International Airports in East African countries International Airport Mwalimu Nyerere is inadequate stadium than all fields where crop has been in use and transporting Drugs without control keen.

He said that the transportation and importation of has increased mihadarati three times for a period of ten years, and that the number of deaths and the increase in the number of users has been a threat in and that the commission is unable to control the situation for the whole period since its establishment.

According to the pastor of Pentecostal Churches said that until June this year, according to the research conducted by the activists of the fight against illegal drugs in the country is that a total of 6708 youths have died due to the illegal drugs in the city of Dar es Salaam alone.
He said that the City of Mbeya a total of 48 youths have died yet in the border towns of Tunduma and Kyela a total of 104 youths have died and in the town of Tanga, a total of 71 youths have died yet the city of Mwanza a total of 36 young people have died due to the use of drugs.


