Education construct the image of the nation, the introduction of his people, 5, 2015

NIMETOA an example of how the family of people keen zinavyoenenda zinapodhamiria investing in education of their children.
Even if it is the family-loving father and mothers who were luxury in their youth (before beginning hawajazaa) the watabadilika just wanapokabiliwa and the issue of their children to raise them and to give them everything kitakachowahakikishia better upbringing and the lives of effectiveness.
This means that watahakikisha that children get a good kukulia, clean houses, good accommodation, food diet containing enough protection against disease, the yanayoepukika, testing of their health from time to time, and the quality of the behavior utakaowafanya waungwana to be in their lives.
Then, education.
Education is together with good upbringing they receive the children in the household walimozaliwa, in the community walimokulia, in the village or in the market and also in school.
The school has been is an agent of the family and the community of the village or estate in the activities of promoting education of a child when they cannot again parents forward at the borders of the family and the community of the village or estate cannot again prosper in its borders.
Parents and family they accomplish their responsibilities to their limit.
Communities in the streets with them and they accomplish their responsibilities to wanapokomea, and the child is going to the school where the responsibility of the continuation of education and child care linapokelewa and teachers and other employees of the organization of education.
From the family, village, the neighborhood to the school and the college, all this is a continuation of the main activities of nurturing and kumtengeneza mwanajamii will be beneficial to him personally, for his family, for his village or his estate, and to the whole nation and even the international community that is more broad and the whole world.
That walivyopatikana teachers who are qualified, wanafalsafa, public servants waliotukuka, leaders walioacha their points in the community, the defending every good thing in and the opposition of every tarnish that is in the world.
Walipitia nilizoziainisha all those steps above.
Tukisoma biografia (an account of living) of people like Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Julius Nyerere, Nelson Mandela, Martin Luther King Jr and wengne, we get the image waliolelewa people through the action to reach their youth that are doing good in the world.
What is important is that walikuzwa wakifunzwa about justice, equality and humanity.
Their actions while the youth wapevu yalidhihirisha praise raised from early walivyokuzwa way from.
(Who wants to follow up on this, there are many books the biografia here in the country and in neighboring countries, Europe, America and Asia vinavyoonyesha how senior leaders walivyolelewa and be educated.
Right now in the country, kinapatikana mhadhiri book to the University of edinburgh, Thomas Molony, aliyeandika about the lives of childhood and youth of Julius Nyerere: Nyerere, The Early years.
Molony anaingia view in detail alimokulia Nyerere uliomlea environment, culture, the training from the mother and other family members, the content of his previous education, education and the later while secondary school, and so on until the University of edinburgh, Uskochi.
Parents, close relatives, the community of the village, teachers aliokutana them in school and in all colleges, were the flow is one of the knowledge, skills, education and the joy iliyomjenga Kambarage and became so he used to until his death).
Hujidhihirisha contrary with those that are completely against nilizozitaja.
Many children who were born with the kukuzwa in the family of thieves and who were not lucky kunyooshwa and the community of the village or estate, wamekulia in an environment of the theft and eventually, wakikua, will be a big thieves, the criminals and corrupt, because that is that they got upbringing, and that is the education that.
Silika of stealing his property itamfanya sometimes aibe himself as lacks someone kumwibia.
For a child, same as the one who is born and kukuzwa in an environment of strife and conflict in the family or in the market and in the village.
Every palipo and strife ataparukia, and without and strife atautengeneza.
When we say you don't that a child, that is the way umleavyo akuavyo meaning.
Is there an account true of the human children waliolelewa and animals like dogs, and have the wild-and wakakutwa with those behaviors of their guardians.
Therefore it is very important for the growth of the children of any nation prepared, supervised, coordinated by to be controlled by kinachowezekana education and training, the behavior and the movements of the people of this nation viendane and misigano should not be drinking huge amounts and to make the country should not be a recognized hulka.
I have ever asking, and until now nauliza: This is what the National kinachotambulisha, Tanzania?
Is kindness?
Meekness is?
Is the defense weak?
Is the trust and the truth?
Is the quality of education of our children?
Is patriotism unaojenga love for the country and its people?
Is the defense of the weak and hatred against injustice and oppression?
Or is inadequate to violence?
It is a, be fraudulent, tension, uzandiki and unafiki?


