
Yanga members waifunga Simba

It has been written by Grace Mkojera

Imechapishwa: 26 September 2016

Parliamentarians lovers of Yanga yesterday came from vifua ahead after emerging with a win of 5-2 against their Simba in the match that was played at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.

That game as well as uliotangulia of the artists of Bongo Flavor against Bongo Movie was special for the purpose of contributing to the victims of the earthquake in Kagera province.
Previously, the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa alizindua the system of electronic tickets to enter the National Stadium and saying that is well and you continue to be used.
Said he is impressed by how the system and is supposed to be used in sports grounds, especially to enable the national team and the country to get more revenue.
Majaliwa made the remarks after using the system when getting to witness the match parliamentarians lovers of Yanga and those of Simba who walitanguliwa and the battle of the Bongo Movie artists and those of Bongo Flavor.
In the netball game, the parliamentary team emerged with a victory of 15-14 against TBC while Imelda Hango of parliament scoring nine goals and Irene Elias of TBC scored 10 goals alone.
On the side of the soccer team, the Bongo Flavor won by penalty 5-4 against Bongo movie after a draw for both teams drawing 1-1 in full time of 90 minutes of the game.
Yanga members among the leading goal in the third minute, a goal that was scored by Sadifa Hamisi while Mohamed Mchengerisa scored the second and third in the fifth minute and the eight.
Omary mgumba Simba for the first goal.
Yanga walifunga five and the fourth goal in 25 minutes and 28 through Mwigulu Nchemba.
Simba's members among the second goal in the 39th minute scored a penalty and Godfrey Mgimwa.
The delegates squad Simba: William Geleja, Jaku Hashimu, Hamad Masauni, Kaizer Makame, Omari mgumba, Godfrey Mgimwa, Paschal Haonga, Cosato Chumi, Hamis Kigwangala, Aziz Aboud and Sixtus Mapunda.
Members of Yanga: Hamidu Bobali, Venance Mwamoto, Gibson Meiseyeki, Mussa Sima, Ahmed Nguali, Anthony Mavunde, Sadifa Hamis, Ali King, Mohamed Mchengerisa, Ridhwan Kikwete and Alex Ghashaza.
That match liliingiza a total of 187 million shillings.


