
Malaria is contagious disease deputy n a o l e t zinazojulikana blood cells and who goes by the name of Plasmodium professional.
These cells cells enter inside the human body after a mosquito bite type'Jike Anopheles.
Mosquitoes with the blood cells when it bites someone, Plasmodium humuingizia some of that infectious disease at the saliva with it, thus spreading malaria.
These that husafiri until in where liver hukaa until vifikie maturity.
There are 4 types of malaria, which is P. vivax, P. malariae, P. ovale and P. falciparum.
Zimepewa names, depending on the type of Plasmodium inayozisababisha.
3 type the first not dangerous but falciparumni is very dangerous and can cause death quickly more.
This is because only ikishaingia body huzaana in large numbers in the blood.
Red blood cells of blood (which husambaza oksijeni in the body), usually affected and into heavy cannot kapilari.
This situation leads to death on the part of the brain, liver, lung, kidney and matumbo because of lack of oksijeni, an issue that causes death if haita tibiwa quickly.
The symptoms include fever, malaria kutetemeka, muscle pains, vomiting, anemia (inayosababishwa and stop by the red blood cells), kuumwa banks and head to the retina.
These symptoms ones every after two days for the infection of P. vivax and P. ovale, during the symptoms of P. malariae and P. falciparum ones after every three days.
Fever can accompanied by inayojitokeza every after between 36 hours 48-fever or isiyoshadidi but that is going on.
The children and often malaria hudhihirisha unnecessary restaurant, a sign of brain damage.
Had been discovered that cause malaria in recognition of problems, especially for children.
Also leads to a spread of anemia in the period to grow fast on the brains and the pollution directly into the brain.
This destruction of brain and kinurolojia it results from the malaria which is very dangerous for children.
This type of malaria uhusishwa uweupe and the retina, which can be beneficial as a sign of kutofautisha malaria and other causes of fever.
The World Health Organization (WHO) ever to give a report that in the period of the year 2013, more than waliambukizwa 198th million people and imekadiriwa that people 584,000 walikufa due to the disease.
Almost four out of five people are the children under the age of five years.
Nearly 100 countries in the world huathiriwa and this disease so threatening the lives of many people.
It is estimated 3.2 billion people in the world are faced with the risk of being infected with malaria.
So as to deal with the disease, scientific experts wamebaini permission to new ways to kill a mosquito nets in the drugs.
That way has managed to 100 percent in tackling some of the types of mosquitoes.
The international research report says that way which uses a lot of the strength of the electricity elektrostatiki kupaka huwezesha drugs nets high standards to carry the drugs.


