Malinzi: Ulikwenda for Lowassa to do what?
January 23, 2014

President of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Jamal Malinzi, he has all the rights of having to support him in a relationship with someone with any issue with the best.
Havunji so that the law of the country, Malinzi can go anywhere, wants to meet and anyone who wants to talk to anyone.

But there is a huge difference, so much between Jamal Malinzi, as an individual and Jamal Malinzi as the president of TFF.
In Swahili tunasema fasaha, is like the difference between mbingu and land.

I will give a real life just a few examples.
Jamal Malinzi can go on the field and cheering a goal when his team Yanga inapocheza.
But, as the president of TFF, is required to show patience due even if he has a private love.

As an individual, Malinzi can go at the meeting of the clubs wearing a sweater anayoipenda club but as the president of TFF, there is the level at which cannot cross to show his love.

Every anachofanya kutanguliza first is the welfare of his institution first before his personal interests.
It arrives at the time of the offers several benefits to choose between him and with the benefits to the TFF, the president of TFF is required to vote for the benefit of the institution.

Is many things small but with great effect, so much.
That is why, nilishangazwa and his step of kumtembelea the retired prime minister the day before yesterday and kumwelekeza about the plans of the European analoliongoza.

A success which is required to be asked a question here is for what reason Malinzi went to explain the plans and strategies of TFF by Lowassa.

Lowassa is not the minister of the Ministry of Information and Sports that at least one is working closely with the federation.
As Lowassa could have the minister of the ministry, ningeweza understand the aim of Malinzi to go.

Unfortunately, sijasikia as Malinzi has to go to the Minister of the ministry, Doctor.
Fenela Mukangara, and to tell him about the strategies which amemueleza Lowassa.
Question linarudi still on, why Malinzi went to someone who TFF haifanyi work with him one by one?

Ningemwelewa a bit Malinzi as Lowassa could have the chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee on Social Development that deals with the issues of sports.
But Lowassa is the chairman of the parliamentary committee on foreign affairs, which in fact, does not have the relationship of one by one and TFF.

As Lowassa could have a member of the National Sports Council (BMT), ningeweza understand the aim of the tour of Malinzi.
But, unfortunately, Lowassa has never to be a member of the council.

I say that openly ningeelewa as Malinzi could have he had gone to meet President Jakaya Kikwete, because his government is the inayolipa the salary, the coach of the national team (Taifa Stars).
But Lowassa is a member of parliament and not the government for now.

As Malinzi had the problem to meet with the prime minister, is who has retired soccer by choice.
Is called Frederick Tluway Sumaye and not Edward Lowassa.
If could have met with the Sumaye told him about his plans to lift the soccer, at least ningeweza kumuelewa.

That is why najiuliza, Malinzi what followed by Lowassa?

Edward Ngoyai Lowassa ninayemfahamu I am seeing any soccer match at the biggest in the country for a long time now.
Basically, when you talk about the names of the politicians who like the soccer game, the name Lowassa usually halitajwi.

Tunawaona politicians who come at the National Stadium during the large and small match of football.
Professor Juma Kapuya one usually on the pitch.
Samuel Sitta is not that anahudhuria mpirani, but is also one of the sponsors of the Simba Club.
Nimewaona also only on the field, most of the time, Freeman Mbowe and Zitto Kabwe.
These like the ball.

Amos Makalla the one on the field.
Mussa Azan Zungu anahudhuria match.
Iddi Azzan anahudhuria match.
Richard Ndassa anahudhuria match.
Juma Nkamia anahudhuria match.
I have seen him many times Mwigulu Nchemba attending a match at the National Stadium, where there is a big match zinapochezwa.

I have no sure if Lowassa has to get into the stadium to watch the match even one of the soccer.
Is inside of my justice said that Lowassa is not a person of football.
It was therefore, all of us tungejua upenzi because the football is not a kujificha.
That is why, together with the top position in this country, every person anayefuatilia soccer knows that Kikwete loves Yanga Club.

In football fanaticism, there is no secrets.


