
The presence of a national debate about the death

It has been written by Lucy Lyatuu.

Imechapishwa: 24 October, 2016

Last week, the Legal and Human Rights Center (LHRC) kiliandaa the conference to discuss about the availability of the death penalty in the country and it is abolished. isitumike kikitaka on claims that it is against the human rights as the constitution inavyoeleza the existence of the right to live.

In that conference, liliwashirikisha various stakeholders to discuss and to give their thoughts about the presence of the punishment in the country and its importance.
LHRC says, the right to life is very basic rights and the existence of the death penalty is an illustration of the correct violations of the rights to live.
Speaking at the conference, that was part of the commemoration of the day to protest the punishment, the director of LHRC, Doctor Hellen Kijo Bisimba, says the right to live inalindwa constitutionally under Article 14 of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of 1977, however, defense utolewao and the constitution is not correct.
The death penalty in the country can kumkumba anyone atakayepatikana and guilty of killing of treason under the provisions of the law 39 197 and the regulations and the punishment to be implemented by the punishment, is to President aweke signed the certificate of the implementation of the punishment and the courts.
The constitution offers defense of the right to life under article 14 but also imebana defense against the punishment for the non-human brutality, and zinazotweza humanity under the article 13 (6) (e).
Punishment of death well the right to live, a way of the implementation of the punishment for strangulation until death is a brutality, humanitarian and inatweza humanity.
Moreover, the center kinaamini that the punishment inayokinzana and the constitution of the country for fighting and article 14, which makes a wider security against the death, but it is 20 years where the punishment haijatekelezwa here in the country.
Apart from that LHRC offers isiwepo reasons for wanting the punishment in the country, it reached during the existence of the national debate about his presence and the implementation of the punishment so that all sides can be kuridhiana for legitimacy.
I am saying so because at the conference organized by LHRC are zilizokubali sides to continue the existence of that punishment, going to more that even in religious books produce the opportunity to be implemented by the punishment for every anayekumbwa and the crime of that kind.
For example, the religion of Islam are explaining that some of the existing chapter in the book Kitukufu of the Quran, death is justice to aliyeua intend to, his right and proper kumnyima is also defend dhuluma and are not the same.
Moreover, the other side authority stated that to continue to implement the law and when the punishment of death itolewapo is their responsibility to ensure are executed.
Is due to the presence of the situation and the importance of the presence of the national debate that you will be able to make sure that you finish the issue of punishment of death and donate to each side are in the community, there are people who are doing that the brutal events to an extent that get that punishment is legal to them.
Is in that logic, when it reached various non-governmental organizations, to use their time to educate the community to avoid making a mistake that in one way can kuwasababishia meeting with nowhere to reach the punishment of death.


