
MARAPA NOMA WANAOIGIZA Tomas Matiko vilima and at the Hollywood, shelter the film industry in a very common that music ao wakiamua who succeeded in the entertainment industry, by a to'aa pia. nna, Cher, David Bowie as the last one mii mwongo industry big Dadi marapa wakikaidi while also acting in the way a in music.
Let watathmini ao walioasi music not because utokana and love to kutofauti, and still they left kunga'aa D. a selling more than 25 album ioni all over the world and write its name in the record books as one of the great white marapa to have ever happened in the sun, ilifikia high time kahisi that alihitaji doing ukia in the drama.
During akigemewa that angeanza as i or with a small enough to give an tajriba at fauti completely on the film industry because 8 Mile (aliyoigiza as Jimmy B-raba who.
The surprising thing is a that film that that, his first ulimsaidia appointed by a vying for Oscars awards.
O of the Eminem drama and until kuhiriki more than 50 films, including who Project X, Southpaw between ginezo. wanza rapper was this drama lamu Belly of the 1998.
That period that is still doing his music and or acting in hakikuwavutia face.
But in the 2000 ilipotoka Romeo Must dye is the time to begin his ability in uliulika acting and putting him in one class akali of Hollywood.
O aside on the film and acting as a bandit, alhirikishwa Soundtrack, in which song and the late Aaliyah.
The producer of the film Andrzej owiak was impressed by the level of Romeo Must dye the amount of umtumia again at xit film Wounds and Cradle 2 The G t Li. four U Jump OUT Boys, Death to aadaye akaigiza The Bleeding. ekuwa zikimkabili and kumpele o have been zikimrudisha nyu at, Puffy) iaka Nineties where he also alikuw.
Many stakeholders believe kuw enye the death of rapper late T, while akijitosa in drama, a very much as his colleagues ikichukul a assistant actor in handball enye Fi Monster same n U that made stated ateuliwe music production and but haku a being involved as muhusik sin In The Sun alikotisha so much 0, she was involved in the film or in Greek and then akapata face Ami, Hawaii Five-0 and its delphia. a difficult to you believe K a film in more than 25.
I nye quality kukusa a professionalism that the drama is Half Bak aby Boy aliyoigiza together on and the beauty Taraji P Henso of the Cookie at an ms ruru Empire period.
Snoop also on the film has appeared to another Training Day aliyoigiza together with the star Denzel Washington, iliyomsaidia cinema appointed to vie for the Oscars.
It is also an remembering his cinema Snoop at the Old School in a aliyojigeuza zuzu on her acting and to leave every mtazamaji akiumwa and mbavu.
Tyrese Gibson to the English language as ukiniuliza me, Jomba this I would nikamwita 'CockTail' of entertainment.
This is because anachanganya everything and just still comes from a pipeline.
Has the power only kurapu well, he has the ability to sing the meaning RnB kilavidavi and also ikifikia drama, eeh! Usipime.
Tyrese alizingatia doing music more than anything else until the year 2000 in at alipoamua ugizaji likewise.
His first film Baby Boy is sure the 2001 that eliminated well only.
At the beginning of his Ukawa ulingo acting posted where music little aside and focus on the film.
Aliigiza as concerned party. in general 2 Fast 2 Furious and then being called again in the Fast and Furious 7 1 to akiigiza together and at the Death Race, Transformers, The Take all of 2007, Legion, while this year in Ride Along 2.
Last year announced in order to completely ajitume more in the drama.
Ludacris the years 2000 started kimzahamzaha happened in the small ugizaji while playing an position.
That period he was doing the music is not a game.
But when he participated in a film of The Wash 2001, that is the way and iliyomfungulia akapata to act on the face 2 Fast 2 Furious together with his friend great Tyrese.
The great job zilizomtangza even the most are those of 2005 Crash and Hustle & Flow zilizoteuliwa competing for Oscars awards of the year.
There found himself being very went, and to completely music the last time he ever will give being 2004.
Ludacris still attend eating Michongo at among the film actors watakaoshirikishwa in the Fast and Furious 8 due to be released within the 2017.
LL Cool J under while is very umemsonga katimiza 48 years.
LL Cool J Sea, the film S.W.A which very AM since 2000.
Ice CUBE O'Shea last Jac more of the group later AK Wit Attitu mwenyew MTV in 1989 and given the marapa who Music ime marapa maishari who music ilimweka K kuhadhith at the time of the contract and the terrific n Ice mwish Cub of six years i do the new leadership doing but now yu with r Ride Alon ht Outta Compton out at ao.


