Unproductive zano hayataipa Z'bar generous Nov 11, 2015

Next week nitaendelea and the article last week about this election to be a lesson.
Today I could see little about the challenges in elections in Zanzibar.
I should start by saying that the elections of the year 2015 umetupa great a lesson as a nation, tumejifahamu more people and as a citizen, and that our queries Ikiwekwa in big attempt might its disappearance, our ustahimilivu may has gone down a lot and there are some of our fellows, all their decisions, is more feelings and not the logic.
Our leaders wamejipambanua them better and many tumewafahamu their color.
Is sure in one way or another tumefikishana here and every person because of civilians has in contribution kutufikisha here.
Our dollars and its agencies are also contribution in our kutufikisha here, the political parties are also a great contribution of kutufikisha here, where we are not in a good place, hatupaswi to be proud people level kutukanana publicly, kutoheshimiana, kutokupendana, kutokuaminiana, huge amounts of selfishness and hatred and everyone to evade from citizens to be responsible for a citizen leaders.
Start accountable if each person, and we kujitafakari where every one of us amekosea and tusibweteke and answers mepesi mepesi which will give our mind like, is the government, is a certain political party, is the rich, is the poor, it is certain tribe, is a certain region, is a certain religion or certain denomination.
When you get there, if it is a parent nitakwambia said when the last time uliwaeleza your children benefits of their country Tanzania?
It is uliwasimulia how the Tanzania is unique countries in Africa and the world?
And if you are a citizen ukibisha and start a finger while nitakuuliza for others it the last time ulishiriki government sessions your estate and ukashiriki identify opportunities and barriers to development "Opportunities and obstacles for Development (O & OD)" in your area?
Or umetingwa with your activities trend while the issue during the campaign in the 2020?
Badilika begin to supervise the government, begin to be a keen now.
Zanzibar imekwama, wisdom zitatukwamua Zanzibar elections took place one day and the election of the United Republic on 25 October.
According to the constitution of the United Republic and the constitution of Zanzibar, these two elections is different and do not have any relationship.
Nikizungumzia kimamlaka these elections are being managed by rock nation two different Authority, reference the constitution of the Republic article 4 inayozungumzia "state authorities" because of the United Republic under the National Electoral Commission (NEC) which inaratibu elections of the President of the Republic, members of the Parliament of the Republic Mwadiwani together with the side of the Tanzanian mainland.
The authority of Zanzibar under the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) has a bond to coordinate the election of the president of Zanzibar, the members of the House of Representatives and councilors.
In these elections in two different, both commission should put his managers across the country to manage the electoral activities that constitutional and legal authority they have.
Translation of these explanations is that even the Zanzibar, the National Electoral Commission (NEC) installed in each station officers to supervise and running the elections of the president of the Republic and the republic's parliament.
In line with the NEC, also ZEC installed his officers to supervise and running the elections of the president of Zanzibar, the representatives and councilors in all the stations in Zanzibar.
Even the stations is one area but is two different authority.
During the election results broadcast on eliminated under the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) yakatokea several issues that in one way or another yalipelekea the chairperson of the Zanzibar Electoral Commission kuufuta election of the president, the representatives and councilors.
The chairman of ZEC family Jecha has reason, I eight more than a few nitaeleza, first, during the exercise is the delegates inside the commission wakashindwa "" acquainted with the easy language while Tanzania Mainland, members of ZEC were and strife.
The chairman is going to more said the delegates of ZEC wakavua mashati and start kuchapana Makonde, if it is not enough to members of ZEC wakarudi behind their viapo obedient and to start flying the flag of their parties ndao of the commission.


