Tambwe has no sure Yanga

It has been written by Grace Mkojera

Imechapishwa: 05 December 2016

Yanga may ikampoteza its striker, Amis Tambwe had handed whose contract unaelekea end, because until now there is no any talks that they did with him.

Tambwe amebakiza only five months in his current contract expected ended at the end of this season.
Yanga may be plan again and they don't want to retire and that the best scorer in the Tanzanian Premier League last season and the season of the year the day before yesterday.
While Yanga last season scored 21 goals while he was in his first season and Simba in the Tanzanian mainland premier league, scored 19 goals.
Due to the laws of the soccer anapobakiza player contract of six months can have talks with another team or even sign a contract of previously, if his team haitamuongezea that contract.
Speaking with this newspaper yesterday, Tambwe said that for now, he has not identified any offer, but if it happens after his contract and Yanga, he is ready to end.
"Still I have a contract and Yanga, sijafanya any talks of an additional until now, though I can't say where nitaenda, waiting only ukiisha lie open", he said.
The player of Simba said it is too early to decide to leave as the desert, akiamini has an opportunity to continue serving that club.
Recently, the vice chairman of Yanga, Clement Sanga said wanamhitaji that player because he has the quality usiokwisha, and that they will do and talks adding him a new contract.
Tambwe has scored eight goals in the circulation of the Tanzanian Premier League this season, he finished second behind the leading Shiza Kichuya while ametupia 9.
At the same time, the defender Mtogo of Yanga, Vincent Bossou was expected to arrive yesterday and today to join his colleagues in training the team ready for the second round of the Tanzanian mainland premier league unaotazamiwa start on December 17.
Bossou arriving will do the number of players who reported Yanga teammates to since the new coach, 24, Zambian, George Lwandamina he started to train the team.


