Wanakataa Pajero because of the bicycle!
Jul 17, 2013

Emmanuel Arnold Okwi, right now is claimed to be seen akirandaranda in the estates of the city of Kampala, Uganda, while his club Etoile du Sahel ikihaha wanting to returning to the team according to his contract.

This is the second month now Okwi its katulia only to them.
Story?
Hajalipwa his salary and that his club.

Only four years ago, Mbwana Samatta, was akirandaranda in the estates of Mbagala, akigoma to play for Simba club on claims that the car as haijamnunulia walivyokuwa has agreed.

Today, Samatta is one of the players the rich more here in Tanzania, while playing outside Tanzania in the club TP Mazembe.

Ningeweza provide many examples that but only other itoshe for today.

The big problem which linakabili many players of East Africa compared to their Western Africa and North, is how wanavyotafsiri their success.
How wanavyoona great pictures ahead of them.

Samatta wanted to stop completely playing football because of the Toyota Corolla that during his value haikuzidi even eight million shillings.
Today, anatengeneza that money for a bonus only the international matches.

But, four years ago, Samatta was ready to play the match mchangani in Mbagala Kibangulile where akilipwa 20,000 shillings for the match than play for Simba.
Simba which later ilimpeleka TP Mazembe!

The player gets what benefits anapokaa only home akistarehe for a period of two months while his team was ongoing and the competition?
This is something which some of us tunashinda understand completely.

Unfortunately, the world nowadays it has been a very small.
Others are saying imefanana and the village.
This means that these news of absenteeism of Okwi zinasafiri the whole world.
There is no team that is ready to register agents or players who are not and discipline.

In Europe have, discipline inayozingatiwa all than is that of participating in the exercises and follow the instructions of the teachers.
Even if a player has a bad behavior, as he is doing exercises well, can kuvumiliwa.

The big problem of discipline here inaangaliwa at very small things.
You'll find anamchukia leader player because hamwamkii wakikutana.
Or the person anasemwa badly because anavaa hereni the ears.
Only small things.

Such mistakes the Okwi yatakuja kumgharimu later.
This is a mistake that yalililewa in soccer system of Tanzania and thinks he can do even Europe.

While Simba, Okwi was never even just one ever returned to Tanzania every alipopewa rest.
While their phones, was hapokei leaders except speaking with anaowataka people only.

For good luck, alivumiliwa with Simba.
I don't think this can kuvumiliwa Tunisia where the discipline issues are close and European standards.

Our players have what?
Okwi huyuhuyu who came to Tanzania for the first time while wearing anakuaje kandambili today, pride and the chest which kuitunishia Etoile du Sahel imepitisha many players good and famous as Kader Keita of Ivory Coast.

What pride Samatta kilimpa the decided to stop completely the ball for hajanunuliwa Corolla?
Now can buy even Range Rover wanting and or asihisi as his account has reduced anything?

Simba and Etoile du Sahel is not the end of life.
These are ways of passing before someone hajafika Liverpool and Arsenal and then to go to Real Madrid and Barcelona.

This tyranny of our players so it is surprising.
Okwi has never been great in any competition through his national team.
Hajacheza the African Cup of Nations.
Hajacheza the World Cup.
Has never been that even the top scorer of the premier league of Tanzania.
This is supastaa of where?

Yaya Toure, who analipwa almost 400 million shillings for Tanzania every week in England, right now she is teammates and his team.
Okwi anagoma exercising and Etoile.
It means the players who are continuing with practices there cannot get a problem if azipatazo him?

Right, looking like this player to be paid at least 100 million shillings per month only itakuaje?
Not ataomba even abebwe taken to teammates?

Anakosa an opportunity to get more success by checking the current salary.
Refuses to acknowledge Pajero because the bicycle.


