
2016 was the year of disgraceful michezoni Imani Makongoro, Citizen imakongoro @ mwananchi.co.tz today is the day for the year 2016 366 while tunauaga and to usher in the new year 2017.
The end of the year to usher in the new year 2017 which everyone, people, institutions, wanajipanga company organization, according to the procedure and what kilichopangwa achieve their goals.
During the year 2016 ukimalizika, we can say it was not the success in sports, and the only success is the winning cup of CECAFA for women who Kili Queens.
Kili Queens beat Kenya 2-1 in the final match that was played in Kampala, Uganda.
The year of losses in the year 2016 was a loss, because between inayochezwa 50 games in the country is to win the women soccer cup Chalenji and Mbwana Samatta taking the award for the best African Mwanasoka soccer player who plays in Africa.
The award of Samatta Africa Samatta aliitangaza Tanzania internationally after winning the award-7 January Boundjah Baghdad, the striker Etoile du Sahel Algeria and the goalkeeper, Robert Kadiaba of TP Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of Congo which is the was playing in that time before hajajiunga and Genk of Belgium.
"There is no doubt, in the year 2016, Samatta soccer logo in Tanzania is the only player aliyeweza play of the Europa League, this is an example to be followed in our soccer and our Heroine of 2016," explains a sports analyst, Ally Mayay.
The championship of Kili Queens Chalenji despite the various challenges, still soccer squad of the Women's League (Kilimanjaro Queens) kilipambana and put the record of being the only team that won the championship of CECAFA this year.
The former coach of that team, Rogasian Kaijage said the team despite kuiletea cup countries in the year 2016, but two-thirds have support and inspiration because the child has been ikilelewa as' 'streets.
"Laiti Kilimanjaro Queens or Twiga Stars ikipewa support, every day ninasema this is the team that can take Tanzania in the World Cup, look at 2016 if not itself, Tanzania ingefunga" Cup the year without, he says.
Serengeti Boys, Alphonce Felix walijaribu 2016 Serengeti Boys ilijaribu 'kunusa' success 2016 after kujitutumua in the process of playing for the tickets to qualify for the finals of Africa for young people under the age of 17 despite being eliminated in the final match and Congo.
Serengeti ilikwama michezoni disgraceful action end after losing to the Congo Brazzaville 1-0 away, thus making the results that 3-3 and Congo Brazzaville qualify for an away goal after scoring against the Serengeti 3-2 in Dar es Salaam.
This year, also mwanariadha, Alphonce Felix tried construct Tanzania in the map of the Olympic medal to donate all despite aliambulia the fifth position in the Marathon race.
President of the Athletics Federation of Tanzania (RT), Anthony Mtaka spoke about the position since the beginning of the success in that game and insisted that it has never happened in the past several years ago.
The secretary general of the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Filbert Bayi explained that the results are the catalyst for the preparation of a long time and insisted that if the parties and the government vikiwekeza in the preparation, Tanzania will perform well in the next games.
Alphonce entered in the list of the top five athletes in the Marathon of the Olympic Rio 2016 in Brazil while amekimbia for 2 hours 11: 15: Akiachwa for 71: 2 minutes and the Champion of the race, Eliud Kipchoge from Kenya.
The year of embarrassing Taifa Stars, Ngorongoro Heroes and Yanga Taifa Stars iliondoshwa earlier in the process of searching for the tickets to qualify for the finals of the Africa during Heroes who are the ones were tarajio of Tanzania in soccer in the Olympic Games kuitendea unable rights for not participating in that position.
The secretary general of the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Filbert Bayi said kutoipa TFF position behind really Ngorongoro Heroes in the quest for Olympic standards.
"Tuliwaambia TFF about the participation of the Ngorongoro, report know but themselves hawakutilia kept, you cannot kuwalazimisha," said Bayi.
Others walioharibu 2016 is Yanga and Azam.
Yanga the African Champions League and were given to the Federation Cup where a water were equal status and Azam that was given earlier the Federation Cup.
Other games was ICU 2016 in the year that was difficult for sports like boxing, swimming, tennis, Wavu, hands, the basket, Magongo, kabadi, rugby, golf, kriketi, squash, table football, netball, lift up the things margin and other sports in the country is more than 30 inayochezwa 2016.
The national team of the year boxing ended consent under the slogan '' wahapa here to participate in the international competition without any hand in hand with the national team of Netiboli.
Other games as Wavu, hands, lift up the things margin, Magongo, kriketi and was taking place on the bicycle kusua Sua ikiambulia patupu while in the field of international football.
The former chairman of BMT, Colonel Iddi Kipingu admits lack of 2016 that bad year in the family of the athletes.
"There was no emphasis and the awareness of the leaders in this success, has contributed to seek tufeli internationally, but niwahakikishie Wa Tanzania, I naanza to seek the journey to the success of the sports in preparing young people, who wants to join with me is open doors," said.
MO, Manji buy Simba and Yanga this year unaishia also to stop memories of business people, Mohamed Dewji (MO) and Yusuf Manji wanting to buying the club Simba and Yanga.
However, walikumbana and various challenges it explained that their decision it did not follow the constitution before the National Sports Council (BMT) to prevent and wanting to every step to start afresh and participatory.


