
The decision of parliament Bangua Bongo Honorable faults, do you know other people is wehu.
Let give one reason why the parliamentary debates irushwe laivu and I nitakupatia ten reasons why isirushwe completely.
Again nakuambia as a citizen of M usual completely.
God aniepushe and misokoto of their debates.
Again these days with the decision is not them so I need to listen to what your while wakipashana like vijiweni instead of masponjini.
Let nikupashe main principles of the defense and security of the nation.
Linda wajinga inayoheshimu equal rights in the country, we must to protect wadhaifu inside the community.
Well.
If the parliamentarian is only able to learn how to read and write, while even that only driver, you must have a certificate of form four, why sponji seats give just one reason why should wakosefu refuge?
Honorable hajaomba minister.
Hajaomba given mental inayohitaji work.
Has that only member to go to support kinywani and mapochopocho kochokocho.
When a person is too member of parliament, he has no choice but to say because it is rojorojo for the Honorable.
Now if kadamnasi inateleka statement in front of the whole country, tunamtendea justice true.
Is not his offense, hajasoma, why aumbuliwe?
Tunaonyesha wrong because the whole profesa in class? Professor will release the words ajabuajabu but anasitiriwa and his university, so those who know his foolishness is those its students.
As profesa analindwa why Honorable who knows only to read and write asilindwe?
That is why, for that Tanzania is the country of people wanaomcha Almighty God it is obvious that we are supposed to protect the status of these search waliosota honorable work associated with their reputation.
Linda the language of the nation on that we would like our language and the National hatupendi itiwe smudged, we must know that there are others who they do not know our language of the nation well.
Even foreign problem.
For example, someone anapotumia "word beibii" knows the meaning?
Is not his offense as he was anasinzia teacher when anafundishia in class.
Or because staying amezoea vijiweni and the language of vijiweni is badly at all other citizens waambukizwe kibovu Swahili.
Therefore, so as to protect our citizens against the misuse of that language or mislead kuwafadhaisha, these use yabaki secrets.
Papohapo laani and all those who come out so that they can be cross-examined and distributing bad words yaliyosemwa at the private usponjini.
Linda faith, peace of voters yesterday walimiminika elect this or that.
I don't think many of them very walimwangalia their candidate sponji level.
Waliangalia color regardless of his clothes contained within the color without forgetting those walioangalia manoti color or a t-shirt or waliotomatiki.
As huniamini, went on how many campaign meetings prospective honorable their seat?
Now coming to recognize that the one with the shop does color pondwa things, this can discourage them.
Officials will be unable to work.
Will not caring for his family.
Will fail to build the country.
Yes.
I was very young, I tuliwaamini our leaders.
Tuliwaheshimu not because they were honorable, again this word lilikataliwa completely.
Tuliwaheshimu due to the words and their actions the honor.
That is why tulijitolea died and recovers to build a nation.
Tulilima on even while we students.
Tulienda to teach our father and our mother and our sister and our brother to read and write... without claiming even five tuliamini senti, because our leaders.
Tuliamini completely we were in one trip.
Not tusote us watambe and suit.
Now let imagine, see it the other words kipuuzi offered by their Honorable, people will be and Mori true of building the nation.
Linda concern I is the foundation of msahafu, who have wataongezewa and narudia kuse where that, for good luck, this country let God is that like to follow misahafu directly.
Jumuiko; who are the winners, they have the right to protect which it without being disturbed and the eye of the with husuda on the second side.
This is the the first commandment.
Linda your interest usilinde interests of others.
That is why someone while at anaangalia sponji seats, only one thing.
Being a woman and women of the second side wanadhalilishwa and the man their side, atawekaje before humanity and the honor of women.
Must aweke interests of his group.
Must atalinda interest with his colleagues.
Vivyohivyo, while is a certain area, potelea far as mwenziye anatusiwa, who have first other, it is the dream of alinacha.
However, it is not well seen why you can understood badly and citizens who do not know these principles or with husuda why these and they have missed.
That is why we can the curtain of kuwasititi people in protecting their interests.
Linda male system Usishangae faults.
This country has its culture.
His culture is the male system upende usipende.
Mabeibii wanaobisha wanapoteza time.
I personally nawatafuta mabeibii every corner and wakinifurahisha must niwape a gift.
There is what sadly.
Am so because it is the way ourselves men.
Beibii in front.
Now if someone is doing so in his life has all women to see what crime are therefore?
Is not his thoughts friends?
But in front of the citizens with limited a understanding and especially mabeibii themselves who are the ones most voters, you can understood badly.
That is why tunatumia privacy protecting mtamu culture.
Usiniambie that's not true.
This is not the bill.
Issue is that we must tulinde our culture of these to as mabeibii why tusipofanya so, at the end of the day people watakujua discovered that they have the brain than us.
Mmmh kiama!
Linda huria and market huria network Umeona himself faults.
We do not broadcast a total because that are there about this, but retail which there is wrong things?
Here every Honorable can decide to kujionyesha laivu in time anaoutaka himself.
Not during ameshikwa and sleep due to the national kufakamia dhifa or kinagonga due to the heavy debates at the bar.
It's time can kujionyesha well.


