
The source of the fitina North Mara III Dec 12, 2014

The second part of this article was published in this newspaper last Wednesday, explained a statement of different groups of people yanayotajwa when it comes to the crisis that exists between the gold mine of golden North Mara (North Mara Gold Mine - NMGM) and the residents of the villages that is near the mine.
Those groups is together with the management of the company of African Barrick Gold (ABG) that runs the mine, the residents of the villages, political leaders and journalists.
Previously, in an exclusive interview with Good Citizen, the head of Tarime district where you that mine, John Henjewele, aliyanyooshea a finger those groups saying that is the source of that dispute due to private kutanguliza their interests.
However, after being questioned and this newspaper at different times recently, some people from those groups walijaribu evading blame and others admitted that contribute to the crisis.
This section of the third and final proposal, describes many given by various stakeholders about the tactics and procedures that can help to solve the conflict and ultimately improving the relationship and enable each side benefit from the quarry to satisfactory levels.
Wapendekeza stakeholders medicine for the conflict Augustino Sasi, a resident of the village of Kewanja kinachopakana and NMGM, anapendekeza presence and the partnership to share the benefits derived from the extraction of minerals in the mine.
That, instead of the investor to pay compensation of various assets to pave way for the villagers wanaohamishwa mine activities, accepts the amount of money to pay them watakachokubaliana every month until uchimbani utakapokoma mining in the area.
"The leadership of accept mine into a partnership and we villagers tunaohamishwa from neighbor the mine, that is to be unatulipa the level of money tutakachokubaliana every after a month or two months," says Sasi and to continue: "Utaepusha existing complaints that procedure for now, including the kutupunja and kutucheleweshea compensation of our property.
Therefore, concrete solution the current crisis is to enter into partnership so as to each side ufaidike and inayochimbwa gold mine in this ".
A resident of the town Tarime, Samuel Magoiga, he anapendekeza having a procedure of the mine to ensure that every year unagawana District Council and the financial benefits resulting from the mining kugharimia for the purpose of improving social services to citizens.

Magoiga who is the executive director and founder of the Institute of making employment Tanzania (Tanzania House of Employment Creation - TAHEC), with its headquarters in Mwanza, he insists:

"That method will help end the conflict between the two sides, and especially if the government will be inazitumia the money well to solve the problems of the residents of the villages neighboring well and that mine if not Tarime in general.

"You know what is happening at the moment is that people wanatibu symptoms (signs) of the disease (crisis) instead of the essence of the disease.
The investor anashughulikia the conflict to its benefits, the government inashughulikia the conflict for the benefit of the investor, while a villager akiwekwa aside, that haitamaliza the conflict.
"On the other side, that conflict unachochewa and politicians or for not knowing, or to know.
I I think tukubaliane directly that the amount of revenue kipelekwe mine District Council can be used to solve the problems of the citizens, "he insists Magoiga and increasing": Emphasize that, because this problem very linawagusa residents of the villages that is near the mine, the government should have the procedure to partner with more closely to ensure that unawapatia mine their rights.
"On the other side, you ensure that the village's first, also an investor, sincere cooperation of the government and the villagers with transparency in the matters of the constituency, they should have a big villagers together, but more watekelezewe their priorities.
Another "mine, I've heard that you want to start (extraction of underground mining under under) so as to avoid using a high cost to pay compensation to citizens wanaohamishwa from neighbor the mine.
I am saying haitasaidia means that to end the conflict, instead will grow the current crisis.
"Therefore, I should be given the first opportunity, I think the villagers.
Again I take this opportunity to urge the villagers also contributed to this period of the local government elections to elect leaders with good will and a commitment to help them to solve the conflict ".
Journalist Mawio newspaper representative of Tarime district, Igenga Mtatiro says the concrete solution that conflict is the implementation of promises that were given by the investor that mine in the village.
"Issue, an investor to fulfill the first contracts or at which the agreement and the villagers as well as building the Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA) and to hand before December 31, 2014.
"Also an investor awawezeshe small miners to get a mining areas, the modern equipment of excavation and the training of modern technology to run centered mining conservation of the environment.
That will help to end the current crisis and the villagers they will not and hostility against an investor in the mine.
"Also should ensure that investor anawalipa satisfactory of compensation to citizens on time.
But also the leaders and employees of to mine and the procedure of villagers to visit, to listen to the challenges facing and cooperating with the government find solutions.
"Another issue, the leaders of the government and the stereotype stop discriminating journalists present in Tarime District and Mara Province in general in to encourage investment and extraction of minerals in that mine," says Mtatiro.

District commissioner of Tarime, Henjewele, he says the village to relocate from neighboring that mine ikitekelezwa effectively will help eliminate the conflict between the two sides.

"An investor to fulfill its responsibility to ensure that all the people that live inside a distance of 300 meters from the mine wanahamishwa.
All the people who neighbor the mine in the distance is supposed to pay them compensation for their property to wahame in order to protect the safety of their health, "says Henjewele.
On their part, the head of the police of Kipolisi Tarime / Rorya, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Benedicto Mambosasa and the lawyer of NMGM, Abel Yiga, say education to the villagers about the issue of investment in the mines can help to solve the conflict.
"Ishirikiane government and politicians to do the job of educating the villagers because those sides are zinasikilizwa and citizens.
That education iwaeleze citizens the importance and the benefit of investment in their areas, "explains Yiga.
"Citizens have the right to be educated the importance of foreign investors in the country.
Is well villagers know that that the investor is legally and policies of our country inahamasisha a favorable environment for foreign investors, "says the commander Mambosasa.
Different from other mines, NMGM uligunduliwa center of settlements, therefore kuwaepushia health effects so that it was a must to relocate to pave way for mining activities and bughudha after paying compensation for their property.
However, kulikuwapo and violation of the rules and regulations of the paying compensation and transferred from neighboring NMGM, a situation that iliibua conflict of when it comes out of the management of the mine and the villagers.

That hostility was the cause of acts of invasions, looting and destruction of property in that mine various tired of some of the citizens, especially the youth unemployment livelihood wanaotafuta for upkeep and their families.

Many times the guards of that mine in partnership with the police have been forced to use a powerful bomb which involve the tears and shot handling dealing with people involved in that crime caused the killings among them.

Encountered a privatization from the mine and the government of Tanzania to the company of East Africa God Mine (AMGM), East Africa Gold Mine (EAGM) from in Australia and Placer Dome from Canada between the year 2000 and 2006, before ABG also from Canada inayoumiliki for several years now.


