
Do town it will meet the challenges of the child and you don't know the place from?
J this public yamekuwapo great many events in the plateau of upbringing of children in the country.
Was the incident of the launch of a work program of the government of five years in the protection of women and children.
This program shows how the inatia interest collaborating with the parents in their responsibility to implement the home needs and give their children.
In this article tutaangazia how it can use government agencies help you if town it will meet the challenges of the child.
If a parent mate ametelekeza the child and to refuse to provide services to the child, even though the ability to possess.
This is a crime and ukikumbana toiling with it at the offices of the social welfare, gender and children's desk the police station or give information to the office of the local governments / village.
Child law inazipa 'authority' needs of all children all council district, towns and cities.
This means that health services, education and the welfare of children in general are under the supervision of these councils.
This is in addition to take appropriate measures parents who do not want to fulfill their obligations to provide basic services to children, including food, accommodation and the clothing.
Orphaned children for a donation of the brothers tandaa family.
District Council, towns and cities are required to set aside money to do?
Child law being read together with the law of education are following instructions about the viboko.
Although the punishment viboko inaruhusiwa legal school here in Tanzania, the purpose of viboko (according to the law) not kumtesa a child, but to help to make corrections.
That the time of giving these punishment achapwe child or in Kiganja (often girls) or matakoni and dressed her clothes.
Now if a child amechapwa on the head, on the back and other places those except mentioned (viganjani and part of the past), is a crime.
The reality of issues in helping the children who live in difficult environments including orphans, disabled children, etc.
Therefore but mwanajamii and orphaned child and became black basic services for the lack of help from his brothers and relatives of the family.
You can give information, at the offices of the local governments or to the community development officer to the child get its desirable.
If your child amefanyiwa acts of brutal at home, school or elsewhere.
Statistics show that a girl one of the three girls here in Tanzania hufanyiwa kingono violence before attaining 18 years.
In their seven male children one hufanyiwa acts of kingono before attaining 18 years.
More bad actions this happens more to our houses and school where he is expected to be more than a safe place to live.
Ukigundua kafanyiwa child these actions, please give information to the community development officer, the gender and children's desk or kick 116 phone number without paying, get professional advice.
If it is viboko school many parts of our country is different and the requirements of the law and existing guidelines.
We will of obeying the law without forced many hatujajipa kuzielewa time and our rules and regulations zinazolinda interests of our children.
These reports are every corner and especially in the internet.
Begin the procedures for the law to the child that now is available in the Swahili language in order to be in a position to feed your child.
Good Sunday!
For the comments and advice tupigie 116 phone number, which is special for child services in the country.
This service haitozi payments from all networks in the country.
Also you can kutupata through our Facebook page: SEMA Tanzania, Twitter: @ SemaTanzania and www.sematanzania.org


