
Tanzania and Burundi, Congo WAUNDA WAO celebrations after KUTENGENGWA

While Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda zimeunda unity 'has a union of those Tayari ", Tanzania, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) zimeanzisha require cooperation between them.
In the recent days there has been a shake up in the East African Community (EAC) after it was divided making and their colleagues in Tanzania and Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda in some of the important issues especially economic cooperation.

Tanzania, Burundi and DRC them zimekutana as part of the implementation of the promises of the Minister of East Africa Cooperation, Samuel Sitta who told the former parliament that Tanzania is thinking of partnering with those countries.

A good ujirani

Speaking with journalists after a meeting of Ujirani Mwema, which took place in Bujumbura, Burundi yesterday, Sitta said Tanzania, Burundi and Congo have agreed to promote the infrastructure of roads, rail, air travel and the water in Lake Tanganyika.

He said the meeting intended to improve the infrastructure for transportation in Lake Tanganyika which linaziunganisha Burundi, Tanzania, Democratic Republic of Congo and Zambia.

"Also we have planned to promote the central railway from the area of Uvinza, Tanzania to Msongati, Burundi and also road linking the Manyoni - Tabora - Kigoma through Bujumbura to South Kivu, DRC," said Sitta.

That meeting was attended by Sitta together with the minister of East Africa Cooperation of Burundi, Leontine Nzeyimana by the Minister of Transport of DRC, Jack Lukeba.

"Tulitembelea also port located in Lake Tanganyika Kalindo side of Burundi because we want to improve the port that lake," said Sitta.

Minister said Tanzania and Burundi zitaunganishwa and dentists Road - Tabora - Kigoma and Manyovu Road - Mgina, Mabanda - Bujumbura itakayounganishwa until South Kivu, DRC.

About air travel, Sitta said those countries zinaangalia the possibility of starting the journey of the plane of Dar es Salaam until Bujumbura.


