
Yanga, Simba important points today

It has been written by our writer

Imechapishwa: 7 September 2016

Premier League in Mainland Tanzania continues today with three stadiums grasses of burning while the veterans Simba and Yanga vikishuka football pitch to look for three important points.

The game between Yanga and Ndanda unaopigwa at Sijaona and is expected to be the opposition due to every team wanting to preserve his record in the field where Yanga are only one to look for three points to defend their championship profit of Airport. during Ndanda inatunza doctoral kutofungwa at its home ground.
Ndanda bridge has risen season of the year 2014 / 2015, and remaining to play for the third time this season in the league, while showing that record wameshatoka a goalless draw twice and Yanga, kunyukwa immediately and beats Yanga 1-0.
Yanga that was being faced by the Federation Cup competition, inashuka the pitch to play the second after the match against African Lyon iliyoshinda 3-0 eight position in the Premier League standing with three points.
Ndanda imeshacheza two matches holds 15 in the league standings and it has lost all matches away.
On the side of Yanga, his players who dropped by the claims that moved the level today will their team former while Ndanda.
The players are Kiggi Makasi, Jackson Chove and Salum Telela.
Moreover, in today's match, Yanga itawakosa his star six due to various reasons, those are Deogratius Munishi, Geofrey Mwashiuya, income Ngonyani, Haruna Niyonzima and Vincent Bosou.
Other matches today will be between Simba ikiikaribisha Ruvu Shooting at the famous freedom "Gardens of Mrs." as the first game played at the stadium after being beaten for more than one year ukifanyiwa repair.
Simba is prepared a guide for the officers of Ruvu Shooting, after being forced to a goalless draw and the officers of JKT Ruvu in his second match.
The assistant coach of the reds Jackson Mayanja told HabariLeo that changes have done on some of the mistakes that match in ilizopita so as to ensure they are doing well in their match next.
"We are prepared well in our game against Ruvu tumeyafanyia mistakes that work in a match so as to ensure our tunaondoka and all the three points," said Mayanja.
Azam and it will be hosted by the Prisons at the Sokoine Mbeya.


