
The regions of the south has all the features of the special economic zone that the south region of Tanzania includes the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara which for many years was is behind in development due to bad state infrastructure especially roads.
In the 1990s and back behind well a surprise to use more than two majuma travel on the road for the journey from Dar es Salaam to Lindi or Mtwara, when he is currently in a speed of six to seven hours.
That situation ilisababishwa and poor roads and the absence of the bridge and the ferry in Rufiji river.
The pace of development in the provinces that was lower for the civil servants who were wanahamishiwa those provinces they kana that penalty they and their employers.
In the recent years, especially from the years 2000 Lindi and Mtwara provinces, it has been a great attraction for the purpose of living and investment in the agricultural sector, industry and business.
Of Tanzania from different regions in the country have been wakihamia fast in the regions and from the activities of agriculture, livestock and business.
In this period that the government seriously intends to build the economy of industries is well ikaangalia the way it can use the opportunities that are in this area.
Southern provinces has all the features and the opportunity to carry the image of the economy of industries to our nation.
Those things, first of all the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara has great land which haitumiki for production activities.
The southern provinces land disputes to do for economic activities.
In that state then if itawekewa special strategies is enough investment opportunities for investment in agriculture, livestock and industries.
The presence of land and with a big, natural fertility enough rain tambarare is an attraction, the modern agriculture, livestock and the construction of agro-processing industries in the agriculture and livestock.
Another opportunity is Mtwara port which has the longest natural.
Mtwara port is enough investment opportunities for the purpose of the importation of raw materials from outside the Mtwara and also transportation of products going outside the country.
Can be used as the door of kusafirishia industrial products from the regions and also different kuingizia raw materials industries.
Mtwara port has a large area which can be used for the purpose of expansion and the construction of infrastructure of strengthening.
Natural gas is another opportunity kuhakikishia source of reliable energy for the use of small and big industries, in homes.
Extra also the natural gas is produced and kuchakatwa can be transported to outside the country through the port.
It is easy to attract investors to come and to start industries in the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara inakopatikana, where natural gas generating electricity for the purpose of industries.
Is also a way to other industries and to revive the kubangulia kuziongezea cashew nuts so as to value instead of having sold crude foreign countries.
Another opportunity to the regions are their production of the cashew nuts, sunflower and sesame.
The production of these crops is an enough of the establishment of the industries kukamua kubangua cashews and sunflower and sesame oil.
Farmers can farm in large numbers need more sunflower, sesame and cashews and then kuhakikishiwa sure market and a good price of those crops.
It is easy to revive the factories of cashews in the provinces of Lindi, Mtwara and Tunduru District than to start building a new industries in the regions or other provinces in the country.
Kijiografia Lindi and Mtwara provinces is bordering the neighboring country of Mozambique, which has a good relationship with Tanzania and therefore industrial products that will be zinazalishwa in this provinces zitapata better market in the provinces of North of Mozambique.
On that logic, then it is something that is clear that the regions has all the opportunity to be done that special region of the economy of industry here in Tanzania.
It will be surprising issue if the government will continue to attract investors to continue to build factories in Dar es Salaam while the provinces in the south there are more all the opportunities of Dar es Salaam.
The residents of South them should take advantage of these opportunities in the economy.
Joshua Mnonjela is the analyst issues of the economy and the community.
(0787696900 or joshuamnonjela @ yahoo.com)


