
Mama, her son wachinjwa Bagamoyo Mauaji yadaiwa done and her husband to the love wivu Ngarabali Juliet, Citizen jngarabali @ mwananchi.co.tz Bagamoyo.
A resident of Makongo in Dar es Salaam, Oliver Erasto (22) and his son, Emmanuel Frowin (3) have been killed ruthlessly by slaughtered and their bodies abandoned at the kichaka Kaole located in this district, Coast province.
Her husband Oliver, Frowin Mbwale (26), a resident of Kawe Dar es Salaam, is doing the killings after kumlaghai his wife go and look at the progress of construction of the Management of the Kaole houses in the area with their child.
The police commander in the region, Boniveture Mushongi said family members went to the motorcycle that iliendeshwa and Mbwale.
Reports of previously zinadai that Mbwale alishirikiana and his friend called Rajabu, Tuesday (20), a resident of Makongo in the event of the killings.
Commander Mushongi said the bodies of the late imehifadhiwa Bagamoyo district hospital to wait for the investigation of the doctor and being recognized by relatives.
"Earlier has revealed the killings wivu resulted from the love.
The husband was akimtuhumu his wife a long time that the sexual relationship with outside of their marriage and a resident one of "Kawe, he said.
He said in the killings, limekutwa yalikofanyika bag, two phones having two line and cell and the motorcycle was used for their journey from Dar es Salaam.
Information officer of the police force, Coast, Hassan Mtengefu explained later that the accused were arrested three o'clock in the night in the area of Zinga, Bagamoyo while on the way when wakitoroka.
"Seemed due to their suit tope zikielekea in the bush, tulikusanya strength of the police and citizens started a search and tulifanikiwa arrest" 3.30 o'clock in the night, he said.
Trending Bagamoyo town Bagamoyo, groups of people especially women were yakijadili the incident while wakilaani and many KULITAKA the police force and the court tough discipline dhid of the suspects.
"It hurts so much especially this child this angels.
This is not the wivu affair, but is just evil, which wivu to human uchinje mwenzako brutal "such, he asked Doris Baton.


