The list of the United things iongezwe II Mar 13, 2014

About the reputation of being elected as the presidential candidate or parliament (Article and 79.
125), for now, is the way to true vinavyopendekeza- parties to nominate the candidate.
So if some who were vying for the wasingechaguliwa as voters wangewajua.
Propoganda of parties and the fans are the ones that zinazotawala.
His results national leaders and inadequate government bad state.
Napendekeza that pawepo and an filter kuhahikiki and reputation of the candidates who were recommended and parties.
And the authority to be kuyakataa and ordering other vipendekeze parties or another.
The Electoral Commission ipewe those authorities.
In implementing this responsibility, would be lead by the commission miiko iliyoorodheshwa leadership in this constitution.
There are other countries with the filter that procedure.
Without having that if the countries that features in the papers and will things we're used as usual and the nation will continue to get the bad leaders.
President suing him at parliament

It is my opinion that the level of 75 percent proportion of votes from the members of parliament for the purpose of creating a committee of the research and removing the president is so high.
Why more than 50 percent isitoshe for the purpose of creating that committee and 66 percent (two-thirds) isitoshe kumwondoaZaidi of that amount is "" kulindana.
Also itamke constitution president or a leader aliyeondolewa power asistahili paid the benefits Uzeeni - pension funds - as it is in other public servants wanaofukuzwa work.
The procedure of changing the constitution

Through this and experience also tuongozwe tuliokwishapata and weight of the constitution that was passed by the citizens.
Utararibu of changing the constitution should not be easy this like that was proposed, which is used now.
This process is the ruling party uliokiwezesha using the numbers of its members of parliament to cancel the rights of private citizens to vie for the presidency, or a parliamentary seat without being appointed and a political party.
Tusiruhusu this process of changing the constitution continues.
Napendekeza first, two-thirds of the members of parliament from Tanganyika and two-thirds from Zanzibar zitahitajika as it is now, and the second; two-thirds of the opposition parliamentarians - wanawakilisha waliowachagua citizens, these three major changes are intended purposes; as recommended 119 article naunga support.
The creation of a parliamentary republic article 113 needs thorough analysis, should not execute it explained.
I see the county elections his area will be very high even doing the work of the candidates to campaign, that is costly and difficult.
There are also asking questions of the election manifesto of the party or the candidate will be and what kind of policy issues of defense and security, foreign affairs and other things like that so as to convince voters kuraTume make ingeangalia the possibility of partners in the country to elect members of the Parliament of the United Republic as inavyofanyika now by the parliament of the East African Community.
But the president is elected by citizens.
Napendekeza it to be like that.
The responsibilities of the director of the elections responsibility of the director of elections (article 196; -3) - that "director of elections of the Electoral Commission atatekeleza its obligations by supported and executives who are public servants"....
Director asilazimishwe using public servants as it is now.
There is evidence unaoonyesha that those workers who find themselves being bigger wawili- wanatumikia mabwana Commission on one side and his employer on the second side who wants his requirements yatekelezwe and therefore misleading the justice!
Napendekeza iwezeshwe commission to employ or to nominate its servants who will be responsible only him.
Sources of revenues of the coalition government in sources of revenues of the coalition government (Article 231); first this proposal, in my opinion, litazaa inadequate government and putting the United Republic as kivuli.
What is the government which does not have the authority to tax its citizens so that it can serve as required we want the coalition government with power.
Strength this is together with the ability to get enough revenue to the government of the union.
Those earnings yachangiwe and every citizen who has the ability to pay taxes and every institution inayolipa taxes in accordance with the law.
For the current procedure citizens pay tax that runs the activities of the union and the activities of Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar.


