
The wedding of death a person!
Aug 15, 2012

"Your seeds imekomaa today my, itakomaa tomorrow.
It is a matter of benefits for all of us as nitalima together with you today, and you unisaidie tilling tomorrow.
I cannot be in a relationship with you if I see that hujengi me friendship.
Utapita season, us tusipoaminiana and partner, then, all of us tutakula "losses.
(Philosopher David Hume) there during nilisafiri to go to Finland.
In nilishangazwa to see that many tractors yamepangana at one farm.
Nilimwuliza my host; where is?

Nilijibiwa that that is the culture of the farmers of the country.
Every year, and the competition using a matekta.
The farmers of one area may at the farm colleague and to make the competition; they are focusing who amewazidi kunyosha his verses, tilling fast, and so on.

Is in the country of Finland nikaelewa, that the culture started since the cultivation of using modern farasi.
Tractors yalipoingia happened in farming, the fellow akamwuliza; "not then, your tractor is the same as the strength of farasi how many?
Is in those environments, even a measure of the strength of farasi kikaanza used; horse Power, means the strength of farasi, even today is used in determining the strength of different machines.

I will talk about the importance of social capital (Social Capital) and civilian dedication (Civil courage) so as to be able to lift the economy of each person and eventually lift the economy of the country.
So as to the community and the country in general economic continue needs to have this important capital.
The growth of social cooperation in various activities, whether of sadness or a ceremony, is an example of the existence of a good foundation of social capital.

This thinking of social capital to civilian institutions may is new to some of us.
However, is something that tunakishuhudia every day.
We see different groups of vikiongezeka.
Today we have examples of the community, we have kuzikana kukopeshana communities and many others.

Tuchukue this example to partner with the community in a ceremony, for instance, the wedding.
Ukitembelea theaters these days the luxury it is no ukakutana and people who are in the session of the organizing committee of the wedding.
Is this committee with the strategies to make the wedding.
Sometimes hupanga even what is called "the wedding of death someone"!.

The organizing committee of the wedding will meet even two times a month.
And often meets in hours after the recreation of the work.
The committee will organize the strategies to effect the wedding while other members of the committee wakinywa beer.
And even wakifanikisha the wedding, they will meet again as a special committee to "" breaking committee.
Will be, watakunywa, watasaza.
The Fungu hupangwa also in the budget for the wedding!

When our colleagues in Finland wanashindana in development activities, we, together with our poverty, we are still competing in the wedding to do a great luxury!
Tunatumia millions of shillings to make the wedding "" people died when there are people this country wanaokufa for poverty.
Wanakufa because the road from their villages to district hospitals ziliko hazipitiki!
There are people wanakufa due to lack of money to buy drugs for their diseases.

Tuichambue closely this thinking of social capital to civilian institutions to look at the texts of Professor Robert Putnam in his book; Making Democracy Work (to make democracy work).
Professor Putnam, American, gave this his own book in 1993.
He and his colleagues did research to look at two areas of Italy; north and south.
This was is 70 years.
Those two areas of Italy have been and economic development with kutaofautiana until today.

Italy in the south is more poor when compared to the northern Italy.
Professor Putnam through the research notes, that this is due to the South Italy lack of what Italy north has.
People of Northern Italy for many years have been and the culture of the community to join together in various wanayopenda things; there are choir waimba communities, the community of fishermen, the community of going to the park to check the aircraft.
There is also the community or clubs in different games.
In general, there are many community of people due to their privileged.

But the foundation, aliloliona Professor Putnam is the fact that the participants in this community move from the outside to check their interests of private and community.
Begins also to check the welfare of the whole community because of the nation.
Then here inapokuja the concept of civilian dedication.

Civilian dedication is that the state of someone to discover that it is a citizen in the country, and that as a citizen has a responsibility of the interests of the country and kutanguliza aliyozaliwa aliyoandikishwa his citizenship.
Has a responsibility to participate in his country.
Social capital, dedication and civilian group is three things to it that according to Professor Putnam yanapekelea, the growth of the economy of the area or the country concerned.

Professor Putnam and his colleagues wanabainisha, that South Italy imebaki behind in development due to his people to focus more personal interests and those of the family zinazowazunguka.
Is in southern Italy where until today tunasikia there are kiharamia groups like the Mafia popular.

Tukiachana and scientific information and kitalaamu more than Professor this, let then we check the situation in our country.
For sure, for this capital social unaojengeka now in our community, Tanzania as the country can make steps for why for development.
We like these committee of the wedding and even for the burial of planning and using millions of shillings for the wedding "" people died and preparing the burial of people, maybe "kuzimia!" Zingeweka those strength to look outside in the family activities.

That through that procedure zingeundwa committee of the infrastructure for our streets.
Zinakutakana more to the strategies to ensure that money zinachangishwa and people are encouraged to mashimo of local roads mitalo yanafukiwa and the dirty water inazibuliwa.
Those that are more "activities" crew someone.
Neighborhoods, the neighborhoods, districts and provinces in involving the citizens ishindane for activities such as the construction of the nation.

And to reach the place also, those with wajisikie shame kutanguliza itself in the community.
Wasipewe kutanguliza qualified for their selfishness and even to sabotage the public property.
Today in our country a leader he sees drop in the vehicle proud to the public and allow the driver to continue kuungurumisha car engines to the great atakaporudi from aliyoendea activities.
Laweza car engines to stop while ikiinguruma even for the whole hour!
Wanakaanga oil and taxes for the citizens.
That the great whenever he and his driver in his car he ends up being private mbogo when his driver anaposhindwa engines off when he ameshuka to care purchase.
There ataona bitterness about the oil yanayokaangwa for free.
Atafikiri about the cost of oil to the money in his pocket.
But, with the public, he doesn't have a problem with the oil, anaikomoa the government!
Lack that is civil societies.
Lack of patriotism.
Is the examples are yanayoturudisha behind in development.
This debate will continue.


