
Msione anashinda, secrets ninaijua I Mussa Juma, Citizen mjuma @ mwananchi.co.tz Alphonce Simbu, was not very has, but after holding the fifth position in the Marathon at the Olympic Games Rio de Janeiro 2016, then started to hold his popularity pace.
That was August.
Five months later, that is this January, won the race at Standard Chartered Mumbai, Marathon competition athletes brought 37,000 and between them, they were officially invited 32 and the levels of the world, in international competitions.
Simbu hakujali nations athletes from the Kenya and Ethiopia and other parts of the world, alikimbia and to spend at 8: 09: 32 kuwanyang'anya only championship, Kenyans in international race.
Sports Mikiki ilizungumza and the wife of Simbu, Rehema Daudi 22, describing what the secret to the success of her husband in those races.
Question: I understand that Alphonce Simbu is told your husband, and he has been doing vizui in athletics, he started to be heard more in the Olympic Games 2016, what is the secret of success?
Rehema: The secret of my husband doing well in his competition, is his discipline in the exercise.
Simbu really loves doing exercises and everything that has been akiambiwa and his coaches, he has been doing so much exercise and ninashukuru God anamjalia.
There is no part of his success is exercise.
Question: But many times, that women are restrictions hushindi home overnight and teammates kawivu kanaingia, is this?
Rehema: (Anacheka a bit), I don't have no wivu... Simbu is very independent and the truth I know her schedule of the exercises, is going to teammates and coming from anarudi exercises at home, anapumzika.
The schedule of caring for his practice very inamsadia doing well.
Question: His life yakoje generally, why others doing well hupenda yaendane lives and their success, this unasemaje?
Rehema: The truth, together with doing well, Simbu living normal life, my husband to true ninachoshukuru has no major issues, stays very common man.
Question: Are usually very much what he desires to eat food?
Rehema: Simbu really loves makande maize and njugu stones.
Hupenda makande and sometimes and fruits.
She is not very many things anajali his health, it is not a person of meat roast or bake or beer, the truth very anajali meal.
Question: Apart from the fifth position he held Olympic this, how, how ulipokea ulipoelezwa report Simbu won Mumbai Marathon?
Rehema: I was very because even I am including athletics.
Ninakumbuka when I was very athletic nilikimbia Primary School.
I athletics, even our this child gets to read and I have a good mwanariadha.
Question: I understand the winner of Mumbai Marathon gets a gift of more than $42,000 Sh90mil, as today, this cargo umeletewa mother here, utafanyia what?
Rehema: (Anacheka...) true!
I I don't know... but as getting itatusaidia improving our lives and especially our houses, but we are building aah, I know what he'll do it more because I think it's still hajakabidhiwa but first to improve our houses and business since I was am saluni business.
After an interview with his wife, Sports Mikiki ilizungumza and Simbu related to the competition and he says Mumbai Marathon race, is the great and famous Asia and to the level of the International Athletics Federation and that those races are meaning is hand in the second group in the world.
Speaking in a special interview at his home in the area of Ngateu Arumeru District, Arusha province, Simbu says it did not defeating her easy job athletes of Kenya and Ethiopia.
Says the Kenyans were wanaongozwa and famous mwanariadha, Kosua Kipkorir holding the second position by using the time at 2: 09: 58, followed by another mkenya Eliud Bargetuny aliyetumia at 8: 39: 10 and the fourth position ilishikwa and a Kenyan Jacob Chesar aliyetumia at 2 o'clock in the 11: 36: While Muethiopita Bonsa Dida spending 2: 55: 11 and held the fifth position.


