
Zanzibar: The coming budget iwainue citizens... Jun 01, 2012

Every uchao a citizen of Zanzibar, normally was war.
Anapigana war and life.
Every day in Unguja will wakizurura employment and people on the streets or in their council is taking.
Bags of their suruwali becomes empty hujaa headlines and their thoughts of finding ways of earning next meal.
When you go in that situation that utaikuta dhalili and inawakabili weakness of citizens.
When you go Pemba yayo are things to yayo.
Zanzibar in general, many these days they have remained wakiyugayuga they do not know wafanyeje so that they can get a way of kutarazaki.
Is the big exam unaowapata.
Without doubt ufukara not the guest Zanzibar, but this year the umefurutu close fees.
The responsibility of loose or kuufyeka completely ufukara is that the government and especially is the Minister of Finance and his ministry.
Minister gets that opportunity anapowasilisha budget of the year of the government in the House of Representatives.
Next month, the minister of finance of Zanzibar, Yusuf Omar Elder, atawasilisha government budget for the beginning of the unity of the nation at a special sitting of the House of Representatives.
As it is fees for that budget, itaelezea the estimates of revenues and expenditures of the government and also itaweka the strategies to fight with the kuukuza ufukara, economy and bring development in general.
Zanzibar people a lot of hope that the budget will be totally different and those in the budget last decades which kuileta zilichangia this current situation Mchafukoge of economically.
Tumekwishakuzoea inapowasilishwa budget in the House of Representatives heard the government ikinadi that the economy of Zanzibar umetanuka and grow.
The government it gives its statistics to try to officially kuyathibitisha that.
The sadly is that the state of the lives of the citizens or zinaselelea remain or any huzidi kudidimia.
Therefore the growth of the economy pose a story is empty because can was confirmed.
This is because there is a big weakness in the collection of data free, that is, those zisizotolewa and the government.
The minister of finance of the government of national unity is faced with many challenges anapoiandaa the budget for this year.
Those challenges other is for a short time, the other half average and the other a long time.
First, in a very short time, is answerable to find a solution to the issue of a deficit of the money for the government.
The remaining challenges, that is, those of average time and a long time, without doubt, is to implement the plans organized or itayoandaliwa and the government so as to enable the economy of Zanzibar to get relief and started to grow kikweli.
Zanzibar people they are aware that their mustakbali matazamio because it is good for the long-term economic good is Islands.
Because they are saying that they have faith kutaongezeka investment from outside and are strictly adhering to the expectations of the formation of the independent economic areas.
There are symptoms or other viashirio also with encouragement to like, for example, the hopes of oil.
However, it is important that economic ills yanayowasumbua yanapatiwa citizens in the June budget.
Is this important to first litendeke demonstrating that this government policies zinatofautika and those of the past government, that these policies have matilaba of serving the citizens.
Second, it is important to this litendeke Zanzibar can mustakbali kujipangia their economic and social welfare.
If this sahafu tulivyokwishagusia in the national government of the urgent needs, again, that policy and "food" easy to kuyakidhi the needs of the citizens to get to enable the daily meal.
Other things that were tested and is keenly levels of fees and taxes, the cost of travel together with utozwaji taxes twice - and the Revenue Authority of Tanzania and Zanzibar Revenue Board.
Zanzibar people have the desire to see how their minister of finance atavyozicheza the cards about the political leadership of the economy.
Have the desire to understand the situation because it is now the minister has no capacity atakavyo kuvisarifu levels of the income tax, customs tax, the activities of the currency and bank, licensing of industries and trade and the whole issue of the central bank.
Also that minister has no way of accessing the international money offered by institutions like those of the World Bank and the Department of Finance contribution International (IMF).
The current situation was ongoing muhali implementing it will be a long-term plans for kuurekebisha the economy of the government of national unity.
Or the government haitoweza bringing the development in the system of the economy of the areas free.
Certainly, the system of the economy of the areas free vizima islands is needed for the Unguja and Pemba and not to the areas and their own Fumba Micheweni because Zanzibar is the country with a small area.
Certainly, there to when the former was and the economy of the area free that area free of the economy was all islands two and efficiency uliopatikana ulivifaidi all those days islands those two.
Neema emerged, all over the world.
Tujikumbushekumbushe to that in the era of Zanzibar, the colonial abroad itself without depending on sponsored by the colonial dollars.
Therefore kujipangia itself was its services in the community, it was able to pay salaries of its workers, building a hospital and secondary schools.
Likewise, it was able to form a government infrastructure iliyotosheleza for during that time.
So that it is able to take action that restrain meaningful in the field of economic and social, political and even, the government of the Union of malice but not to initiate a national discussion of quickly inside or outside of the new constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania itayoanza used five years after accepted.
The aim of the discussion that should be kuyagandua what the authorities and the community and economic power of Zanzibar which yameganda for a period of 47 years in the union.
Unfortunately, the Coalition Government haikuyatumia that authority to take the project all wo natija Zanzibar with the economy to its citizens.
The Coalition Government until now has been the best kugangaiza every when this errors inapotajwa.
Power of Zanzibar in the union yaliyoganda yasipoganduliwa then Zanzibar haitoweza never kuunusuru its economy and the economy will continue kudidimia and even kusakama.
For now, the economy of Zanzibar, but the mistakes and has the following: A huge number of people who do not have employment, a large number of people who do not have the income to enable them to use the money to travel from prices of food, oil and other products.
Remember also that Tanzania mainland is not a great ally, the business of Zanzibar, as it is China, for example.
The current situation is that Tanzania mainland inahusishwa or kufunganishwa and the economy of Zanzibar for the network of laws and regulations that zinainyima Zanzibar, the ability to control its economy itakavyo.
Therefore, cannot very kufurukuta inapotaka kujipangia kikwelikweli its social welfare.
Then there is the issue of corruption.
This is pestilence that the government of the United Nations has the capability of removing and haihiitaji excuse of kurejeshewa power from the union.
Corruption has become as cancer disease uliosambaa Zanzibar, all over the world and the Minister of Finance must use a every kuupiga way war.
Laiti pangekuwako and the statistics of the trust that show the level of corruption in the country and how unavyougharimu the economy of Zanzibar.
Inajigamba that government of Zanzibar's economy is growing by six percent (6%) every year.
Corruption jee, tickets that is growing by that or more?
Zanzibar was not a former and corruption as current.
This disaster has uroho as a result of the civil servants, the department iliyofura of government service with employ several thousands of staff, bureaucracy that prevails with funds that use zingeliweza instead kuzistawisha used the services of education and health and also helped mafukara especially on the side to cater for high prices of food.
Budget of the beginning of the government beginning the unity of the nation in Zanzibar must ionyeshe that new inafuata tarika and not the past.
People will be wanayangoja the results of the budget and to look at how unemployment yatavyowaathiri, who are poor and walala foul in general.


