The youth: Kamjaza pregnant mother, child

It has been written by Msongo Basil

Imechapishwa: 16 October 2016

How things, niaje there, wasalimu stakeholders.
Before continuing to write nilichokusudia nampa sorry for a girl who identified himself as Mercy for yaliyomkuta.

According to the Mercy, his lover amempa pregnant his mother (the mother of the girl).
Mercy also she's pregnant for the youth.
Mother of Mercy has admitted that she is pregnant and given "" law.
It is not common in our community but is the real situation, relatives "katafuna" mother and child and kuwajaza pregnant.
Yaliyomtokea Mercy prove that that unayempenda and to believe him, that is the one who kukusaliti, kukuumiza and even kukuangamiza.
After that about usaliti I congratulate the parents of the child Rashed Al- Hajjawi (10) of Palestine by recognizing the talent of the child and develop it.
I congratulate because not many parents especially Tanzania that are doing an effort to recognize the talent in their children, and some wanavitambua but there is no efforts to develop them.
Rashed child has the talent of playing soccer, the amount of named Messi of Palestine.
The child was born in Norway in the year 2006.
Lionel Messi is soccer player, a citizen of Argentina, and he has been the best player of the world five times.
Waliyoiona a video for talent of Rashed without doubt they have accepted the ability of the child to play football, the amount of kufananishwa and Messi.
In that video, Rashed anacheza soccer and his colleagues, but there is no aliyeweza blocking his doing.
Anawakimbiza as, what he has great abilities of owning the ball, attacking, playing the issues of maudhi, and great potential of kuzifumania team scoring any goal.
The club imetambua Juventus talent of that child and already has signed so after several years may ataanza to do in his Seria A in Italy.
Perhaps there are children of various Tanzanian talented but it is sad that, parents have including the youth culture of kuvitambua and developing.
Talents for the children is a treasure to them and if vikiendelezwa can use them to what happened in the coming years as for Messi, wanasoka Christiano Ronaldo, Marta Vieira da Silva, mwanariadha Usain Bolt, the basketball player (retired) Michael Jordan and the musician Janeth Jackson.
Good days.


