
Wanaokiuka waadhibiwe law Zanzibar president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein recently has been akiwatahadharisha people of Zanzibar, especially young people about the dangerous and the effects of kutoheshimu law.
While being Pemba met with the public at an event to commemorate the Revolutionary 52 years and warned wanaovunja law that at the end of the day will wamejiingiza in problems.
He said the security agencies and especially the police force halipendi kuonea people, but it doesn't have patience and people wanaovuja law.
This is a good advice of a parent to the youth and especially being the leader of the country because the law must zilindwe and respected equally.
By doing so, the excuse of kinaondolewa to break the law.
As a citizen wanaiona law is bad and what is needed is haitendi justice kuilalamikia and to build the argument of wanting changes's.
However, we shouldn't forget at that the issue of respect the laws of the country linamhusu every citizen and the guest and are to be selective hazitarajiwi between big and small, rich and poor or a person's love for a political party or football club.
The problem that is in Zanzibar and which appears kufumbiwa eyes or kutopewa required weight usimimizi is the existing laws.
This conduct has caused some people to feel like Zanzibar, there are people who are above the law and have the right to do their fellow kuwapanda minds watakalo.
It's not just one or two or three zimesikika reports of people in their council of being attacked and talks to be played without the reasons.
There are walioumia and treatment in hospitals and all the events that there is no even one person who was arrested and legal ones held responsible for those acts of criminal activities.
The list of incidents of this kind is long.
Some of the council have been broken into on the pretext of making garden during that are close to those and other hazikuguswa.
Here is alleged pametumika political will and not the laws of the country.
All of us we remember several occasions the journalists of Zanzibar being threatened and even beaten.
Similarly, one station radio station located in Unguja kilivamiwa by those tunaoambiwa is wahuni and the arrest, but fire hatujasikia that did the crime was captured.
Panapokuwapo this situation hubaki person akijiuliza, these laws of the Zanzibar ziheshimiwe should only by a group of people and is certain kuvujwa permission and others?
As what President law must ziheshimiwe, but the need to be for everyone and asiwapo a person or a group of people to be seen to be above the law.
Similarly, it is important for the law to be seen zinafanya work zikatungwa problems that caused by kuzivunja accused to quickly as required by the court.
Remember that in the first person, the defendant anabaki that any hastahiki kuhukumiwa and teach the arrest as he is until anapotiwa offense and the court.
Therefore, is responsible for the defendant with various charges, except briefly, usually the rights of the accused.
Conditions of bail are times, some of the conditions of the bond which is equivalent to the defendant to tell him that he has no right to bail.
For example, tunasikia with the right to put a bond is the staff of Serikal.
For that reason the people of Zanzibar wamegawanywa mafungu, in one of the staff of the government and the second portion hawafanyi are the ones who work in government.
This is not even a bit rights and it is not a good system of law and good governance.
Yamekuwapo the complaints of the case with some of the people to the prisoner kusota tukisikia while years haujakamilka or investigation is underway, to be completed.
This situation inatia faults waungwana good governance and the law issues wanakemea this trend for kutuaambia, "Justice delayed is Justice denied", meaning the rights ikikawia eliminated is the same as kutotolewa completely.
Also so that the law as planned, and the citizens have faith in the system of the law is a must ionekane justice prevail and there is no injustice is done from anyone inside and outside the court.
The style of people have their faces kufunika courage and decided then to careless people is against the law and is not accepted.
Information that doing so is wahuni and therefore people wawapuuze even when their and inapogeuzwa dance or their houses were no fire logic and hayakubaliki.
In ulitokea of Pemba destruction of houses, people's farms were being attacked and many mikarafuu be deducted.
Who is the issue, especially those involved?
Yanasemwa a lot about those events and silence kilichoshuhudiwa is like what happened is small things.
These are saying this and those are saying it and some of the accusations zinazosikika is a heavy and are unsuitable ignored.
Is well to kuisafisha the weather and the truth of this issue was known ikaundwa it was not independent commission, Zanzibar, kuutafuta only truth so that investigation is who she was involved in.
By doing so is everyone will have faith that the law of Zanzibar hazimbagui or kumwonea someone and anyone anayezivunja hafumbiwi eyes on this or what.
While we celebrate the Revolutionary 53 years whose aim is to create a situation of equal citizens and eliminate discrimination or bullying of any kind, is well on the way to evaluate the law zinavyofanya working in the Islands.
That evaluation can have a wider scope and isimalizie with the law, but even the way employment and the position of courses are distributed, a and the government.
Another thing is the issue of the delivery of a citizen of Zanzibar identity cards.
This, it needs to be looked upon in detail and having reference for zitazosaida to resolve the complaints about the provision of identity cards.
Among the things yanayotaka to be in detail why until today thousands of people who they and their parents wamezaliwa Islands and have never thought from outside the Zanzbar are denied these identity cards?
Linaloshangaza are people who emigrated to Zanzibar in recent years and they don't have the graves of their parents in the Islands are rising and that and identity cards and that more than their colleagues who were born in Zanzibar and kukulia.
The government ilikiri that there are many people who secured identity cards, contrary to the law, but hatujasikia even one of them or waliovitoa legal ones held responsible.
The time has come for everything shall on both sides of the coin and if possible even at the coin ukingo instead of players haphazardly to one another to blame.
The author is Political Analyst and the community.
Is available for baruapepe: Barasteki @ gmail.com and opinions @ mwananchi. co.tz


