
22 arrested for the theft on the street

It has been written by Hellen Mlacky

Imechapishwa: 14 December 2016

Special squad to deal with the theft of using weapons and the theft of using the police force in the special region of Dar es Salaam, has arrested 22 suspects for crimes of kuwapora with vehicles and on the street lights wapitanjia the vehicles.

Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the Police Commander of the region, Simon Sirro said the suspects, they have been wakijiunda in groups and kuwanyang'anya people with vehicles, and pedestrians their property if mobile phone, computer, expensive and money.
Said monitoring took place and arrest those suspects at different times, where December 11th this year in the areas of Keko Temeke Magurumbasi and the street and Chang VETA'ombe where arrested 10 suspects for crimes of theft from theft from bodily shape and in vehicles.
He mentioned some of the suspects that is Ayubu Amiri (19), a resident of Mtoni Mtongani, Shabani Fadhili (18), a resident of Keko, Herman Francis (26), a resident of Keko Magurumbasi and seven colleagues.
"In an interview the suspects wamekiri associate with various criminal offenses including'anyi using weapons and to use force," said.
Moreover, he said the previous investigation has revealed a suspect Herman Francis is faced with allegations of murder, 20 March this year where alimchoma someone the knife and running away to the unknown.
At the same time, December 12 this year police waliwakamata 12 other suspects for crimes of theft from the vehicles.
The suspects they have been mentioned that is Sande Kassim (18), a resident of Keko, Emmanuel Abeli (21), Paulo Abeli (18), Jafari Nyerere (22), Hamis Salum (22), Hemed Idrisa (22) all residents of Keko six and their colleagues.
In another incident, the police wamewakamata four suspects who are involved in the theft for people to lure them to use their vehicles hired and later kuwapora more strength.
The suspects they have been mentioned as Juma Kajeni (35), a resident of Tabata, Hamadi Kaganda (38), a resident of Mbagala, Mashaka Ally (62), a resident of Yombo and Mshamu Ally (32), a resident of Mtongani.
He said all the suspects are being questioned and when the investigation will be completed watapelekwa in court to answer the charges that they are facing.
Also warned the citizens and the owners of vehicles uwa keen for those people who comes with the intention of paying a lot of money or hired a vehicle at a high level and then wanatokomea and a car.
At the same time, the police special unit in Dar es Salaam through his work squad to deal with the theft of vehicles kimekamata three vehicles of the theft in various provinces.
Sirro alilitaja a vehicle number plate T 386 CGY Verosa black in color, the type of property of Abraham Robert of in Dar es Salaam and the car in Mbeya having lilikamatwa limetelekezwa.
Another vehicle number plate T 946 DGH is the type of IST financial color which is run by the defendant called Hamadi Saidi (27), a resident of Kimara Dar es Salaam which lilikamatwa in Morogoro Province, the car liliibiwa areas of Kawe Beach in Dar es Salaam.
Alilitaja another vehicle that is as Mitsubishi number plate T 753 CVZ which is fake number while the real number is having its T.815 DJF Magreth property iliibiwa areas of Kimara Suka in Dar es Salaam.
He said one suspect who was arrested he was questioned and when the investigation will be completed atapelekwa in court.
Also said efforts to search for the other suspects involved in the theft of those vehicles should be continuing to identify the entire network of the theft of vehicles and other suspects who are being sought for the theft of vehicles there behind who walikimbia.


