
Imechapishwa: Tue, APR 25th, 2017

TRA gives about joining the changes KODI

Tags

And KOKU DAVID

In ensuring the education tax Inamfikia every stakeholder of tax in the country, Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has met with stakeholders of tax with the aim of teaching various changes in taxes.

Recently at the conference hall that is the Central Bank (BOT) in Dar es Salaam, TRA met in and the leaders and the workers from various departments and institutions in the one-day seminar to teach in the law changes to various tax through the law of money every year, concerned.

Them with education, also the seminar was with the aim of exchanging ideas, experiences together with the challenges in the implementation of the responsibilities of every day.

In its work performance, the authority has been ikikutana and various challenges from stakeholders of taxes which are currently the current strategic plan is to ensure wanaziondoa completely.

Among those challenges is together with some of the business people to use electronic machines of taxes (EFDs) for the purpose of evading paying appropriate taxes, as well as the exemption smuggling business in the country in a way that is not officially.

However, the authority has been in partnership with the police force to ensure inawakamata those traders who are doing those businesses are transported illegally, as well as kutaifisha their cargo to stop those businesses.

On the side of changing the tax laws, its implementation is derived from the understanding of the two sides which is mkusanyaji of taxes and tax accountant.

These sides, everyone has a responsibility of kuzielewa kuzijua and so as to facilitate the functioning of the officers of TRA, but also of walipa taxes to pay taxes that is right and enable the government to get his taxes.

By recognizing the importance of education, tax waliyoiandaa seminar was to through mabadilko important areas of the law of the financial year 2016 together with the restrictions on tax from the contractors and suppliers of various projects together with the service.

Also, through the seminar those stakeholders got an education about the use of the system of collection of maduhuli of the government by using the electronic machines (EFDs).

The commissioner of the Department of big Walipakodi, Neema Mrema, says TRA recognizes inaoupata cooperation from government institutions and the public in different organizations to fulfill the commitment to reach the middle economy.

Says the purpose of the economy of between itafikiwa if everyone atatekeleza his duties fully, therefore sustainable partnership is required to TRA can correct revenue collection and on time and be able to achieve what kinachokusudiwa and the government of the fifth term.

The Revenue Authority of various has made improvements, with the aim of increasing professionalism and effectiveness in revenue collection, service provision and the management of the law and tax systems.

The aim of these efforts is to ensure government revenue are increasing, as well as enable it to do development matters to its citizens.


