
How blocking oil in the vehicle Dar es Salaam.
Wanaofikiria your kupumzisha their vehicles due to the heavy burden of the cost of used them, and especially the price of oil which continues to rise, while income kikiendelea stunting.
Some can get into a majaribu of buying petrol prices easy for the streets during his best umeshapunguzwa after retailers kuichakachua kuichanganya for and the lights and so that dangerous for an.
When the state of the economy that is difficult for many, Tanzania, who feel the Government's strategy, cut spending umewaathiri Citizen newspaper that a solution to the enable you continue to use your car in those environments.
Waliozungumza experts and our reporter explained several tactics to enable the car to avoid using a lot of fuel during anapoliendesha and therefore kujipunguzia a burden of the cost of fuel.
Walk when there is no vehicle congestion "yanapokuwa at the queues yanatembelea gia, so it will be a big vehicle inajishindilia under and therefore takes a lot of oil" lecturer, said the National Institute of Transportation, Engineer Michael Kyando.
Kyando said the queues is one of the reasons that are doing big oil to be used for numbers and therefore it is important to walk people when there is no many vehicles on the road.
He said apart from using a big gia, vehicles also takes a lot of oil at the queues due to the use of air conditioners.
Said it is important to completely off kiyoyozi at the queues to conserving the oil, "like there is a queue and vehicles yamesimama is well ukazima AC and a car.
If goes queues procedures then usitumie AC, fungua ghost vyako screens ipite for congestion that uses fuel more as utaiacha AC as "imewashwa.
Those opinions as union and the driver of his car teksi anayeegesha Buguruni in Dar es Salaam, Issa Minister Brurhan who is keen to use fuel to make sure he gets the benefits.
"AC is something very ninachokiangalia because it uses a lot of oil during unaposimama at the queues.
Kiyoyozi leads the biggest coercion engines, but if this one does not use it in many oil, is the same as usipoiwasha.
My profit is as a result of the composition of oil, "aliyeifanya Burhan said that work for eight years now.
For the long journey, use fuel future kiyoyozi causes many fading at the queues, kiyoyozi is important for the long journey.
Engineer Kyando said which screens open flooded in and cause wind kulisukuma behind and therefore causing the vehicle using the biggest strength going forward, something that causes many use fuel.
Many drivers hupenda to stop open screens during the long journey, while believing that sleep hupotea during strong unapowapiga come.
Hulka drivers another because the loss of oil is the behavior of the drivers of running a car fast without running the cause and oil without a program.
"Unapoongeza accelerator in speed kanyaga procedures, according to the needs of your car for during that time," said Hussein Khalfan, senior director of AMC company who are agents of Nissan.
He said the vehicles of the competition takes a lot of fuel from the fuel running drivers for the violence to ensure they are using a short time.
"Competition vehicles can use fuel tank until the whole lot for two hours when the oil might be used for the journey of 700 kilometers" said, and advised the drivers to step oil as the journey is running for instead of violence.
He said in areas like mteremko, the driver has no need to step oil.
Care of those experts car said they also care of a car, which is to work together with great huepusha Service use of fuel.
"Producer or the owner is required to do Service to check the car engines kilichoainishwa in each half a kilometer.
Should filta abadilishe weather ghost that if haiingii well it will cause disaster in an effort to that will loose and atakapoilazimisha itaharibika, "said Engineer Kyando.
Khalfan said the inspection from time to time lisitumie car helps making a lot of oil.
"Due to car engines ghost using (oxygen) to roasting oil, it is important to inspect the oxygen sensor, air filter that can be imeziba and causing into polluted combustion Chamber (a place where huchomwa petrol to generate power inayozungusha crack shaft which is that runs a car).
Clean ghost is very important.
Inspect the air cleaner, "said Khalfan.
He said the vehicles were former yanatumia carburetor but modern Fuel yanatumia injector therefore it is good zikaguliwe.
Structure of Umbile car of the vehicle is also important in dealing with the problem of the use of oil, but hutakiwa that took place before the owner kulinunua.
"Condition of first azingatie owner must elections in front of a private car wide so as to avoid the wind mgandamizo which causes many litumie strength going forward," said Engineer Kyando.
"Is required a vehicle linapotembea strong upite behind without kuzuiwa umbile and the vehicle for that kulizuia, hulilazimu using a great strength going forward and therefore use fuel" a lot.
Heavy cargo Ubebaji goods also leads to a huge coercion walking and so many use fuel.
Also to add oil are another reason that makes many oil litumie car without reason.


