Program eye unapomwadhibu anger child Dhibiti:

It has been written by Nyemenohi Stellah

Imechapishwa: August 2 October 2016

Among the news zilizonisikitisha in this week, this is on the leader of the church in the village of Kaseme Geita district, aliyejiua by committing after allegedly killing his daughter kumcharaza Bakora.

The report states Mwinjilisti this of the African Inland Church (AICT) gave punishment for his daughter aged 15 years akimtuhumu engaging with acts of ufuska.
It is alleged that her daughter alimfuma finished class seven while standing on the road speaking in those environments, started kumcharaza Bakora.
Witnesses claim went to home where alimfungia inside and to continue kumuadhibu with a beating until alipokata the soul.
The poor, revealed that his daughter filed an the soul, he decided to run away and when she arrived at a distance of approximately one kilometers from the scene, alijinyonga about by using a tree to death.
Limeshuhudia on these reports in the media had been confirmed and the regional police commander of Geita, Mponjoli Rodson.
Those reports of the media zimenukuu some people wanaomfahamu Mwinjilisti this many who confess remain and many questions yasiyojibika about this incident.
Others walimwelezea Mwinjilisti muumini that he had a good record who is incapable of crime.
For sure it is sad.
God amweke in eternal peace and to continue kuifariji iliyopoteza two people for this family mkupuo.
During this leader of religion while ametangulia in front of justice, the event that had caused the deaths, therefore, is a lesson to me and you.
Is a big a lesson not only to the parents and guardians, but any other person with authority kuadhibu.
Without doubt, questions about this event, yanapojibiwa in the view of the spiritual lessons, the answer is coming up that is the devil "" .Hakuna doubt that, every issue with bad results as a result of the devil.
In this event, the devil came to fulfill the saying the truth about the anger "" losses.
There are many events that parents, caregivers, teachers not to give offense to the anger and its consequence assault or murder.
There have been many reports zikiripotiwa about the events of this way.
Among the events I read in the media is together with the mother of his child, Tabora province aliyemuunguza feet for the charcoal banio the fire.
The child aged four years aliunguzwa kuzurura on claims of careless and kutotulia at home.
Mama alimwunguza legs claiming that is inayomfanya azurure anyhow.
If you check for the eye needs, there is no anayependa her child azurure anyhow.
But now, the way that was used kumrudi, was owned by the anger, his results mother akaingia offense.
Another incident ninalokumbuka, is one of a woman in Mtwara province aliyemchoma her child of four years for the crime of eating boga.
He took the makavu leaves akamfunga, hands, then akawasha fire.
Mama's alisimamia alipohojiwa, primary that he took the action that warn him against the child.
There is no anayependa her child adokoe, but also, the punishment was brutally murdered.
It is no was and inspiration of the anger of the bad situation economically.
But that's not the immunity this parent to take legal action against them.
I believe there are many parents and guardians who hujikuta giving stern punishment for their children believing is something correct without knowing that can who change their open.
Nakubali that the anger is a situation that can kumkumba anyone according to the environment.
But ieleweke clearly that, regardless of the crime alilofanya a child or any other person or the factors of your anger, utakapomuadhibu and caused injuries or murder, there is no defense.
This is an example of the results of the parents and guardians kuadhibu children in anger, because a few days ago a parent Elisha Sumila (35), has found himself akifungwa seven years in prison for the crime of shooting his child, by beating her'oa biting two teeth and caused her severe pain.
The verdict was given by the resident magistrate court of Ilala district, John Msafiri he said that the court imeridhishwa and the evidence that was given by the prosecution after bringing five witnesses including the doctor and that the judgment should be a lesson to other parents who are doing such actions.
An essential thing, is to learn to control the anger during the kuadhibu children without caring about different things which huchochea that situation.
For example, among the incidents to be reported that were ever the parents or killed or injured their children, you will find some they are faced with the problems of other psychologically and the economy.
When everyone needs to control the anger in taking any decision, the community should be also help in saving and saving the stern punishment against children that are provided by a person who lost control his anger.
The community is supposed to avoid the style of kupuuza a parent, the guardian or anyone who is letting out severe punishment for a child, ikidhani that does not deal.
, for instance, for the story Mwinjilisti, laiti as community including his family, ingeingilia akimwadhibu when his daughter, visingetokea those deaths.
There are people in the community tunayoishi, wanafahamika and is popular in providing a punishment severe language for children.
But huchukuliwa usual without knowing that one day, those acts can cost the lives of their children.
Tukubali the fact that, the anger is poisonous kumwadhibu stern in a child or even the whole person.
Therefore, we should learn to control the anger and we have tunapotoa a penalty.


