What happened at the international meeting of Davos, 07, 2014

Recently President Jakaya Kikwete, visited the house of international meeting of every year in Switzerland in the town of Davos jukwa known as the economy in the world (WEF) or Davos.
This meeting that started on December 22, 2013 is 44.
Attended approximately 2,500 people including the presidents, heads of government, heads of international companies, investors, heads of international banks, the experts of the economy as well as a few representatives of civil society organizations.
There were 80 mabilionea together and millionaires wasiohesabika.
A total of 1,500 them is when the government is 48.
Administrators of the African countries hufika in every year to kuambulia the donations and grants or to attract investors.
Those it all in the luxurious hotel that is in the mountains of Davos.

The agenda of the meeting was and a topic about poverty, lack of employment, water, medical services and community reserve, together with the climate change.
The aim is to bring economic and social development in the world, as wanavyodai.
WEF 2014 presented the report stated linaloukabili a threat in the world today is an increase in the number and the difference between the rich and mafukara, that is, the rich are kutajirika during the poor are kufukarika.
Participants walizungumzia topic in 250 meetings that took place.
The rich wakabadilishana ideas and politicians and scholars for the purpose of protecting and strengthening their capitalist system.
That is why they were ready to pay 250,000 dollars each to attend the meeting and that the members of the WEF.
Civil society organizations wanaalikwa and allowed to suggested the way of improving the system.
Naidoo, ten activist from South Africa said "usually naalikwa every year and without payment WEF so as to show that our contributions by inathaminiwa.
He is the leader of the international organization of protecting the environment (Green Peace).
Ilialikwa also the organization of OXFAM which iliwasilisha very important report before the opening of the meeting.
Research analyst has shown that one percent of the rich people in the world wanamiliki 110 trillion US dollars, that is 65 times more than owned property and a half of all the people who are poor is that when the world Baya more mafukara kudidimia continuing, the rich are kutajirika.
For example, Bill Gates who tunamtegemea so much as our sponsor great last year, its capital, it worsened for 15.8 billion dollars and reach 78.5 billion.
His results amenyakua now the first position in the world that he was ameipoteza.
This this Gates in its report of 25 pages says the state of the world now inatengemaa, that poverty unapungua, that wanaokufa children wamepungua and that poor nations beginning independent instead of depending on the donations.
Anatabiri that by the year 2035 there will not be a poor country in the world.
Anasahau that every 20 point one child under the age of five anakufa in the world due to lack of clean water and greetings.
That is why the director of Oxfam, Winnie Byanyima aliuambia that meeting that "is something frightening that in the 21st century three and a half billion people wanamiliki much less than the property that is owned by the rich few can spread in one then the" passengers.
OXFAM ikaongeza that this situation has been caused by the rich few raided the property for controlling the political system, also takes KITAPELI ways to control the economic system for their own benefit.
OXFAM ikawaonya the rich of Davos that the fight against poverty is matupu words only without ensuring that the difference between the rich and the poor does not increase every day "this slightly inayoongezeka causes resources continue to be controlled by the rich few, while Capital tuliobaki tunapigana for the purpose of bran or makombo yanayotupwa from the table big", Byanyima said his results, he said Byanyima, we live in the community ambamo better medical services and education hudhibitiwa and few rich for their own benefit and of their children.
This situation, not only in the country but even in those zinazojiita rich country.
Pope Francis and warned that the surprise together with allowances and marupurupu frightening wanayopeana heads is a sign of the economy uliojaa greed and uchoyo of a few.
Added that without equal opportunities (politically, socially and economically) for all our community hazitaishi in peace.
Akakemea ambamo community majority wanakufa by hunger during food kinateketezwa because there isn't market.
Akabeza "" theory lessons inayodai that unaoongezeka wealth for a few under the system of huria market that is benefiting poor also majority.
Warned that the system of worship the wealth of the few it will cause the majority giving up and this community like haitaishi in a poor since last watachoka to persevere.
I pray to God "atupatie politicians wanaokerwa sincerely and poor condition of our citizens," said Pope Francis.
But in Davos yaliyosemwa words and OXFAM, Naidoo, Byanyima and Pope as usual yaliwekwa aside.
Ungetarajia otherwise at this meeting that was attended by the veterans wanaohodhi the wealth of the world and wanaotawala the economy, politics and policies of our country?


