
So sorry for the residents of Kagera, Mwanza, Mara

It has been written by Basil

Imechapishwa: 12 September 2016

The day before yesterday a big earthquake, happened in the country and affecting the regions of Kagera, Mwanza and Mara.
Also that earthquake liliikumba Rakai and cities of Kampala in Uganda and shook also neighboring countries of Kenya, Rwanda and Burundi.

In this country, that earthquake limeacha great sorrow, as a result of the killing 16 people, injured 120 others and destroyed many buildings.
All sorry so waliofiwa and their brothers and relatives, and also so all condolences to the injured and buildings, huge stones fell on the wall, vifusi and fall inside.
Likewise, so sorry for those who had however shock blood pressure together with those affected by tragedy, that caused a careless wakimbie here and there after that earthquake happened.
Tunawatumia condolences to the residents of the regions of Kagera, Mwanza and Mara for is faced with great calamity, which halikutarajiwa by anyone.
Tunaungana by President John Magufuli in his greetings to the head of the region of Kagera, Major General Salim Kijuu that all the Tanzania tumeshtushwa and reports of the earthquake several people, that had caused the loss of life, other assault and destruction of property.
In the province of Kagera, limeua the residents of the municipality of Bukoba and Karagwe District and many injured, including 15 students of the secondary school Wavulana Ihungo, who are supposed to be treated at the provincial hospital.
In general, we are requesting the heads of the regions of Kagera, Mwanza and Mara, to deliver condolences to the family, relatives and all the people that were affected by the earthquake hilo.Tunaomba Almighty God, give you a heart of patience and patience during this period tough tears.
Also, tunawaombea walioumia in all that earthquake, wapone quickly.
Tunahimiza rescue forces, including the army police and Fire, to continue and rescuers in all areas yaliyotikiswa by that earthquake and the defense and security, to continue to look for all the information about the earthquake and all the destruction that happened.
Earthquake measuring stations in the country, the modes of controlling the disasters and Geological Survey of Tanzania (GST), to continue collecting data for the earthquake recently.
We want the citizens who were injured in the earthquake, quick and go to the clinic, health centers and hospitals, treatment because the government imepeleka enough drugs in those areas.
In order to avoid further harm, linapotokea the earthquake, we are requesting from outside the house and to sit apart from the trees at the open, and who are driving vehicles, wayaache immediately.
The citizens to continue providing more information about and we request earthquake agencies, to continue to provide education to deal with various disasters, including the earthquake.


