
Tunamaliza the year for hatred and disputes Jun 01, 2012

One of the issues that we will need as much kuyatafakari closing the year 2008 is tulizopiga step we as people and as a country.
Tukiachilia far expansion of the debate regarding the good governance (good leadership?), which is a good idea and important, there are issues that we have to dealing with them together as Wa Tanzania.
Tumejadili so much the issue of corruption and it has come at it seems obvious that the expectations of the citizens cannot be attained to the environment and the style of dealing with them the problems that has been in use.
1980s the campaign of the former Prime Minister Edward Sokoine pass was very "in attending" brokers and "" economy defaulters.
But the system that was used to deal with the problem had a shortage of however, even some of the primary "economy defaulters" evident openly that were wameonewa.
And there was also a certain mitizamo problem of building a permanent in the applicable time.
Suddenly they followed it up it was clear and even start kujengeka the concept that those waliojihusisha and entrepreneurship did not 'apart from the economy.
Yakatengenezwa various boxes wakawekwa people according to their image of the public it was imejengeka.

It is clear also that the years since the beginning of the resolution lilipopitishwa 1990 the Zanzibar lilitengenezwa a request for the nationally on top of what we were tukikisimamia as Wa Tanzania.
Instead of love the country first tukaanza love than other things more parties; tukaanza love more money; tukaanza love our tribe; more tukaanza love our religion, more tukaanza love our villages, n.k. more
His results, some of us we sure is how many amongst ourselves - ukiachilia far soldiers who are in the job - we will ready to get back on the front line if itatokea tukaitwa days to go for war.
Ninashawishika completely believe that the day in case they show up Yuda watakaosema sure they are not of Tanzania.
Watasema haiwahusu the war.
Watasalimisha their lives and their families and leaving their brothers wakipambana and poor results of the war.
Ninakumbuka walipovamia terrorists day two hotel in India, how the head of the department of controlling terrorism alivyojitoa mhanga; akavaa a cap of steel, vesti preventing shot and hotel kujitoma inside.
Aliuwawa mle by bullets.
Zilimuonyesha television time while anavaa for joining his youth to enter at one of the Taj Mahal, and has just wakisaidiana police to remove his body area of danger.
Still ninamkumbuka also the head of the whole unit fire of America on September 11th alivyojitoa mhanga and kujitoma inside the building one linateketea that was on fire.
The head of zimamoto alifia inside the building just lilipoporomoka.
These events prove that the behavior of civilians anayedhihirisha his great love for the interests of the nation and the great gift more than his soul.
So, we are still kushawishika that are making all the reasons for Tanzania to be love and their country at all times, to the environment, without any kujikanganya or to question the legality of their love?
So, how we can kujiaminisha tuliowapa that those responsible for making great decisions on behalf of us as citizens have the true love and this country to the point of being ready to volunteer wakitetea the broader interests of the public?
So, is how many among the tuliowapa wamedhihirisha those responsible for their actions, without kujikanganya or who change geuka, that they have a patriotism usiohojika and anyone in the eyes of the public?
And if their actions yanatushawishi tuhoji their patriotism there is not what reasons wakwame in a measure of the qualifications representing us or kutuongoza?
So, is the only or different kimitizamo zinagusa inayotufanya foundations tujisikie Wa Tanzania?
So, those who passed in a measure of the patriotism is issues or things (valuable) vinavyowapa what strength of loving and kuithamini their country?
So, they also wanaipenda and kuithamini their country any time and for any environment without kujikanganya or who change geuka?
So, these different zinazodhihirika clearly among the different groups in an yanayochukiana in our community today zinaashiria what?
So, what those kinawapa wanamakundi their inspiration of your belief and it is a must that began under under washinde in the fight against the group hasidi?
While we continue to discuss various issues yanayolihusu the nation, there is the under fire for under unawaka in our community.
Hatujaujadili this fire to the required weight.
Already there are people have put in the boxes kimtazamo.
And the current situation does not totally different and ilivyoanza in Rwanda during the citizens those they decided to be yaliyomtambulisha boxes each one with its origin.
Today Tanzania already there are people wanatambulishwa that they are of a certain group.
And almost every Tanzanian atajikuta forced (or akilazimishwa) into a certain group, depending on the position or personal interests.
It is not the aim of this column forecast shari but there are indications that right now there are groups of Wa Tanzania yanachukiana drinking kukakosekana to an extent that it's impossible to seal a deal.
And when incidents of yatakapofikia seal a certain place yakawagusa those involved may this country ikajikuta officially closed page of his own book of peace.
There are two things headquarters can arise.
We as a nation is the first to sit down with our different including kuchumia primary and those of the stomach, tujadili is what things yanayotufanya tujivunie that Wa Tanzania and why tuamini that we will ready kuyapigania even ikibidi death.
In this debate tunashamirisha ensure transparency and good intentions to country kuithamini first instead of to'ang'ania in groups and welfare yanayojenga membamba pride and selfishness.
But this debate it does not end only in the talks.
Umalizike by creating a fresh ready to put on our constitution so that there is no human atakayeruhusiwa to play for.
This debate you ensure tunarejea in our curriculum from nursery up to universities to invest in our children and youth National foundations of the humanity and ethics to the work of kushighulikia big problem of corruption not as it is.
The second issue, which we litupishie far, is that of Tanzania, we will continue to promote the hatred and hostility fire tulioamua kuujenga amongst ourselves from our selfishness and we will arrive at kudhuriana we shall begin.
This second madhali every group will be led by the pride private desire to win, then we will tumeipeleka this country in trouble.
History itaweka memories of shame so much about our contribution in polluting the peace of this country.
Tumuulize Theoneste Bagosora aliyepatikana and guilty of planning the mass murders Rwanda.


