
Wetang atafuta'ula immunity in court Erick NGOBILO and WYCLIFFE MUIA Senator of Bungoma Moses Wetang'ula has instructed his lawyers to oppose the case presented and Musikari Kombo in higher court about his election useneta.
"That case iliwasilishwa 38 days after the general elections against and needed legal 28 days.
Higher Court has already has given a direction about the case and tunatumai that law, said Mister itafuatwa "Wetang'ula.
Senator said that the decision that was given Friday and court of appeal to oppose his appeal will not affect any to his position as Senator for Bungoma.
Mister'ula Wetang alipuuzilia far claims that the Court of Appeal has decided that is not supposed to hold that position.
"This is the translation of the law isiyofaa.
Court of Appeal on December ilipuuzilia apart from my appeal and ordered the election urudiwe where nilishinda for many votes, "said.
In his decision last Friday, Korti of appeal in Kisumu iliunga support the decision of the High Court that Mister'ula Wetang aliwahonga religious leaders during the meeting that took place at the Red Cross Kanduyi Sh260 where he, on February 22, 2013.
The panel of three judges of the main reason bureau kupuuzilia apart from the election Wetang Mister'ula and later wanting that election urudiwe.
Mister Wetangula said that those claims to provide bribe yalichunguzwa and director of public prosecutor Keriako Tobiko after Judge Francis Gikonyo wanting that Senator achunguzwe.
"Inspection that was done by the director of the intelligence agency after the order of Mister Tobiko haukunipata and any mistakes.
Those claims yalibainika lack of any facts and the case ikafungwa and that is why tukafanya the elections again on December 19, said Mister "Wetangula in a meeting with journalists in Bungoma.
Mister Wetangula alishutumu some of the media to be used by his political enemies to announce that is not supposed kushikia useneta position.
Senator said that hatashtushwa and threats of his enemies and insisted that making the residents of ataangazia Bungoma work.
He said bad translation of the law and the court of appeal has caused the state of anxiety among his followers and those of the union Cord.
Mister alifichua Wetangula the KCA in his music is bu liza, kuogelea. that will'ang'ana and other veterans in the United Cord in vying for the presidency in the year of 2017.
At the same time Wetangula Mister aliikashifu the Jubilee government for failing to provide the leadership to expedite the nation.
"Controversial projects of the construction of the railway and computer inatilia doubt the Jubilee ability to continue leading" said that, Senator.


