
The rights of a citizen is important, they deserve to live fikiriwa engaging and poaching of elephants in order to get them to law enforcement agencies.
That operation was done by Vodacom Company several officers M iaka last four government introduced aimed at stop the operation to look for in tengefu areas and the national wanaopolisi people, the special squad and the wildlife that they were given instructions of that work.
By bad luck, the training and instructions that hayakuwasaidia; the police those walishindwa kutofautisha good citizens and the criminals - waliwekwa one a source all the poachers.
Due to some of those policemen kutotofautisha criminals and those who are criminals, not following the justice or using the law during the operation, the people who were found and livestock and who were running a agricultural activities in the reserve; arrested wakadhalilishwa, wakateswa and some people were killed.
Not only therefore, livestock iliyokamatwa ilifungiwa for several days without being given water or leaves.
It is sad to see the incident despite lililolaaniwa and causing four senior ministers to resign, other police, this time of Suma JKT they have killed four people and injured five others.
Those police who were wanalinda from the government of Meru in Arumeru district in Arusha Region, they have those deaths after beating shot for the fire at an event to their livestock and Zizi to take it to the government.
Apart from those four breeders killed five colleagues, including the child of 13 years old who learns in class three Oldonyosambu Primary School were injured by shot of the fire.
The child, Isaiah Thomas (13) aliyepaswa that in class continuing with studies and his colleagues now she fights for his life in the hospital after being shot on the back in what is claimed is violence between pastoralists and the police who were wanalinda Suma JKT from the government of Meru.
Thomasa who was admitted at the provincial hospital of Mount Meru has been transferred to the appeal of KCMC Referral Hospital after his condition that bad.
The doctor who was akimtibu says the child started showing signs of producing, from KIUNONI until legs due to the shot aliyopigwa seen is about to the main, thus requiring further treatment.
The situation now, a situation that causes the later of the life of the child to be critical.
Similarly, the situation causes the government igharimie the treatment of the child.
Practice we advise that wanapotumwa police arrest livestock or on claims of people into wasiyoruhusiwa areas are supposed to consider the law, caring and protecting the right to life wakabiliwe suspects to the rule of law.
Rangers should follow the law and arrest the criminals to take them to court instead of law freely take hand and caused the deaths of civilians.
We know that the work has its challenges; some of the criminals hujifanya good citizens or others even pretending to be want to help the police but hugeuka and cause harm to them.
Those as yanafahamika then Rangers must wajiongeze kiweledi dealing with every type of criminals to wanapolazimika using presence shot validity of doing so.
Practice we advise shot handling should be used only after the first shot, using the ball, shooting the air and bomb to fly the tears.
However, advise them to request the citizens to stop freely take hand law to deal with the police because by doing so they can find themselves wakijiletea side effects including death.


