China to build a modern stadium Bagamoyo

It has been written by John Gagarini, Kibaha

Imechapishwa: 13th December 2016

Coastal Region is expected to have a modern stadium which will help grow the youth soccer games and lift in that province who umepania that one of the provinces itakayolea talents.
The stadium is expected to be built in the village of Msoga and the government of the people of China, the aim being to grow the game in that province.

Speaking at a special event organized for the purpose of going to visit the area which litajengwa that stadium, the retired president of the fourth term, Doctor Jakaya Kikwete, who was the guest of honor at the event, said the stadium will be built by funding from the government of China.
"This stadium will be the savior of the development of soccer in the coastal region and the country in general.
Will help in raising talents upcoming players and be used in the club and the national team for the day later, "said Doctor Kikwete.
He said the aim of the construction of the airport, is to see that the Coast region and Tanzania in general produces most talented players who watatumika at the national team, different clubs and others sold outside the country.
"I have talked to our friend of the government of China and stadium have agreed building and that is an essential thing in the development of the soccer game in our nation," said Doctor Kikwete.
Doctor Kikwete said that he commends the government of China to see the importance of helping to build a plot, and added that when kitakapokamilika will have other games which will be taking place apart from the game of soccer, the aim is to give them an opportunity to show walivyonavyo youth talent.
And the representative of the China ambassador in the country, Yang Tong promised to continue to cooperate with the government of Tanzania, especially in the sports sector.
On his side, the Member of Parliament for Chalinze Ridhiwani Kikwete said that his aim is to ensure a big anakuza games in his constituency and the completion of the construction of the airport, kutaweza to help young people to promote their talents.


