
23, October 2013

PAC YATAKA IKAGULIWE education ministry of the standing committee of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC), imemwagiza comptroller and auditor general of the government (CAG), to the soonest possible in the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training to eliminate the tension his calculations, says Anneth Kagenda.

The order was issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the acting chairman of the committee, Mister.
Gaudence Kayombo, when he met with the staff of the ministry, including the secretary general, Professor Sifuna Mchome. "We are money imeliwa no but we have directed the inspection can be conducted immediately in order to establish the truth of your accounts... together with the fact that he has the answers to the secretary general yanaridhisha, our goal is to get the answers understood, Mister" said.
Kayombo and increase;

"Example, the ministry has issued several million to Mkwawa or in universities and education institutions... tunachotaka tukiangalia reports of there tukute zinafanana zisikinzane but we believe after the CAG doing his inspection tutabaini" where the problem is, he said.

He added that, uhamishwaji money to haujaeleweka still institutions and unakinzana and to give an example that, the ministry imepeleka money ADEM Bagamoyo that show one million shillings, but the relevant institutions itasema received more or fewer in number.

Mister.
Kayombo said has come at the time of the executives at the ministry, to ensure wanaisaidia Ministry can make its activities well instead have been wakimwangusha secretary general who seems to have answers uncertain anapotakiwa when to do so.

He said those executives, the year 2012 they were given five things to do but surprisingly they have done is one thing, visiting Miono Secondary School, in Bagamoyo town, Coastal Region and the report has shown the school fence.

"This school is close to those map tulishauri it to the fence, only tuliwaagiza walilofanya but they fees for students from universities on that issue is still halijafanyika," alisema.Aliongeza that ilitakiwa also Loans Board to provide information for giving loans to students, to look at the possibility of to run itself instead of depending on the government instead the board went hand and his strategy.

Professor Mchome, when he was asked about the confusion of the money he said; "I think this likafanyiwe psyched work but iliyoliwa" ninachojua no money, he said.
Speaking about the issue of the collection loans, admitted that he is still a great efforts are needed in the collection.


