
I were Jerry Muro quickly these ningefanya last week team of journalists of Citizen's did an interview with the chairman of Yanga, Yusuf Manji is just two days after being elected to continue to hold that position in that club for a period of four years to come according to the constitution.
In that interview, Manji spoke various aspects of development and advice to the sports sector, politics and the economy and providing maangalizo.
I was among the journalists at the team, among the issues that nilimuona yanamkera from the heart is the issue of laivu displayed matches for the team saying zimepunguza revenue in a big way.
He said the revenue decreased by that are waiting for people to look at the ball and also at bars' vibandaumiza 'people they are focusing on Sh500.
Manji said that it is good for the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) remain and their contract and Azam and waseme usually wanawalipa match so as to how many shillings for every wawalipe and wawape independence.
Manji went to more than that to say has caused morari lowering of the fans to go to the field and reduce the income of the club.
Also complained about a few clever kuhodhi the system of selling equipment like jersey, skafu, soksi and bukta that problem for that equipment worth wanatengeneza logo Yanga and use them to benefit themselves instead of the club.
Said in a big way Yanga has a loss and it forces Sh2.5 different things to make billion to winning the Premier League, the FA Cup, Champions League participation to the Federation Cup and is now the group stage.
Now, together with that Manji aliisema in an interview, it is possible it was recognized within Yanga that there are imepatikana losses and reduced revenue.
As a result of that situation, what should happen; ilitakiwa to intelligent harakaharaka sealed mashimo in these matches of the Federation Cup have already imepatikana losses.
In that state, I were the information officer of Yanga, Jerry Muro ningesimamia this take place: First a; Ningeshauri committee of this revenue to manage the people with integrity.
Zingetengezwa zitakazouzwa special card for special people for the purpose of kuichangia Yanga and on the spot is the ticket of the match.
Zingeuzwa card, maybe by 1 or more million which also ingejumuisha if it is food or drinks and vitafunio and is in a special area.
Second; ningeangalia entries that the procedure to run for that competition is the cost, those capable of between their and areas like Sh200,000 right and have their procedure for their area.
There are people who have a problem with their team, only areas.
, same, other areas could be Sh100,000 and 50,000 and there will also be a special service according to the money for people in the area.
All the area, here in the entrance can be Sh10,000.
I know I will be very high, but is known, recreation expense.
Even European matches, basketball kinafikia entrance fee 10 million.
Third Tutapataje people kuujaza; the field for the money?
Ningepanga radio advertisements shop, I will not kuzitaja, zinajulikana, every time the announcement is the air together with TV, ningekwenda asked for TV or radio the sponsorship of those advertisements and programs using the sports organizations to promote more matches influencing people.
Mara; four after ningerekodi to return, the voice of the players and sending redioni, identifies herself then says to his fans, even the coach and those who do not know Swahili, ningetafsiri behind their statements.
; for five different days, ningeitisha the meeting of journalists describing the strategy of Yanga, in addition to being defeated, the direction is jailed procurement act provides, why and what kinafanyika.
The final meeting ningeufanya today Monday, because tomorrow is writing Yanga anacheza and TP Mazembe, I know it will be a big news nitakachokisema and be we have planned should happen, the procedure of entry and everything related to the match, including those with special card and special entries and others.
; six Ningeushauri the leadership of Yanga requested the sponsors, Tanzania Beer Company (TBL) at least to show 'Road' for yesterday on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday tomorrow for Temeke, Ilala and Kinondoni, encouraging mshawasha people to come to the pitch.
Saba Ningewashauri; leaders, also wanisaidie at least through the sports' newspapers, sponsors to advertise their products to give the announcements yakipambwa matches and pictures of all the players, is to put the morale and aggressiveness.
So, until sijaujaza the field?
Not only for this match, all the match.
Many of you, but those for seven, I believe that I will be a nimemsaidia Manji and his leadership and nimetimiza my responsibility as the information officer in spreading propaganda of the match and proclaim good club for the benefit of the club.


