
E speed of Magufuli and his actors that is the beginning of dictatorship?
Or is required speed in the nation this?

Mwalimu Nyerere once a time he said if nigetaka that dicteta ningeweza. right now we Tanzanians upofu or we tena. I have ever said in my post that there is a day Tanzanians watamkumbuka President Kikwete.

Why I say Ivo, let's go together and as unamatongotongo kanawe, and if umemeza sachets seated apart from this, only's great thinkers.

1\.
Threats and accept or HOFU ukatae Magufuli now anaogopwa and amejaza fear the citizens, especially the workers and wafanyabiashara. kumbekeni Adolph Hitler won the election or hakupindua the government also got Public sympathy even when alipokesea. view this even now there are people's watakosoa regardless of its relevance.

2\.
Broken BINADAMU. for for the moment you can put the police without mfano. convicted, the tyranny of Paul Makonda yakumweka MTU kizuizini without breaking the court is to take him to the rights of every binadamu. now head of the district, he is deciding recently just hats for its authoritativeness without considering the human rights.

3.KUVUNJWA for the good of the laws.
There are breaking the law while the citizens wazwazi wakichekelea. mh Magufuli personally claimed he will break the house which prevents the water tap even there is a case in court then people want this wanachekelea hatari. there are regional bomoa bomoa which are ongoing even want there is the objection zinavunjwa only to court jeuri. police also walivunja Mwanza law to prevent mawazo.chekeleeni farewell but lilikufika U will understand the rule of Law, what does it mean?. There is the head of the district geita amefukuza kaxi the doctor without kufata Sheriakupitia meaning the procedure for the employer.
OK just laugh and enjoy but it will b U one day

4.UBABE and tyranny.
BAADJI leaders now wamejawa and its authoritativeness aggressiveness and which is the reputation of madikteta. hatuitaji wababe. want leaders systems found in open from wilayan streets to want is not the nation.
Anawezeje person to cancel the holiday which is a servant his rights want tyranny and its authoritativeness so nothing else U CAN SAY.

Conclusion.
I request that we systems for the leadership and the administration of the country yetu. than Magufuli expelling people every day the problem is not the people is the new constitution mfumo. napendekeza ipigiwe votes so that it started its authoritativeness kutumika. tuache and threats.
Magufuli asipowekewa check the n balance and the executive committee leadership believe namo will be a dictator.


