
Boresha health and for generating income rosella Patrick Jonathan, Citizen Rosella is mmea with many supplements like vitamini, and mineral chumvichumvi.
For many years, this their lilitumika in large numbers in the continents of Asia, South America, Caribbeani and Europe.
Rosella is one of the crops that have a lot of use and in different ways.
Some of their use of the rosella include making juice, jamu, oil, sosi.
Rosella also kuukinga is used body and various diseases such as cancer, ini and lack of nutrients.
Also helps in reducing lehemu and treat hypertension.
The qualifications of rosella mmea of what is?
Its leaves can be eaten as vegetables, is part of the business and are worn at home.
This Mmea hukua and it 3.5 meters in length for the season.
Stem together with its branches vimenyooka yamepishana kimpangilio and other special leaves kugawanyika in three parts to seven, posted on the front as msumeno.
Mmea has green color, black to red.
Flowers is a big yellow to red.
Mzizi long has and it gives flowers wakat i drought.
Also unavumilia land with acids above and below together with the diseases.
The types of their rosella rosella has been given the names of various types in accordance with the areas and the people of those areas they onelea as well.
For example, mmea rosella with the flower known as one choya in Dodoma and other areas, while the coastal region of Tanzania is called mkakaka.
Primarily there are two types of rosella Rosella imegawanyika in groups (the names) which yanafahamika professionally and two people in different areas.
Inafahamika as professional Hibiscus sabdariffa: This is the rosella vikonyo which has the red color and the other green.
Vikonyo therefore vinaliwa.
Another type is Hibiscus altissima Webster.
This type of rosella hupandwa more for the purpose of a (a fibres), but its vikonyo haviliwi.
How to improve their this this linastawi Tropiki areas with the rains between 1,500 millimeters - for the year 2000.
There is mwinuko of up to 600 meta sky from the ocean.
Is linalovumilia temperature and the state of their unyevunyevu, flooding, strong winds and water yaliyotuama.
Rosella hupendelea soil of sand which water with natural fertility hupenyeka easily.
However, it can grow at different types of soil.
Require palizi from time to time so as to eliminate kivuli and leaves.
You want to climb, you need fertilizer, baskets, soil, sand ukifuata while these steps; tifua land well to go under the amount of 20-, chimba mashimo sm15 for the size of the sm 15 and the bay sm 5.
Panda seeds kilo11 - 22 hectares to is good for planting seeds for the verses, palizi in the first month is very important.
Traditional fertilizer zinafaa being used by the system is used to change helps produce especially for the purpose of this mmea mdudu anayeshambulia mizizi at.
You can to change and green crops like kunde and maize.
For small farms at home, then the verses panda ikishaota punguza be in the verses of 1 meter by 1.
For great sashamba, seeds zioteshwe at zipandwe kitalu then to deny being on the 1.3 meters to 2.6 and lyrics from the 2 to 3 meters wide.
The diseases, for this is a great their ukungu (fungus): There are different types of which hushambulia ukungu mizizi and rosella at leaves.
Treat nyunyiza, traditional medicine used to control and eliminate ukungu at the soonest possible produce.
You can using drugs to prevent before the outbreak of ukungu.
Supervision of the farm is important especially palizi, booking mapukutu, kufyeka, kunyweshea, placing the fertilizers, control of harmful insects.
All these are important in the conservation of the farm rosella in order to have a guarantee of good harvest.
Harvesting of fruits and three majuma vikonyo takes place after the flowers kuchipua.
It is vikonyo viondolewe after boiling fruits.
Courtesy of mkulimambunifu


