The meeting will be free -Manji

It has been written by Rahel Pallangyo

Imechapishwa: 22 October, 2016

The chairman of Yanga, Yusuf Manji has said the emergency general meeting that is expected to take place tomorrow will be free and fair and every member alive he will be given a chance to give his duku duku before reaching an agreement.

Speaking to journalists yesterday, Manji urged the members of the club to come out in large numbers at that meeting that will be held at the headquarters of the club desert, Dar es Salaam to discuss various issues including the ukodishwaji of that club.
"The meeting will be free and fair for every member who amelipia his card will be given the opportunity to give their opinion and his dukuduku before reaching agreements," said Manji.
Also Manji said there are reports in the media (not this newspaper) that the secretary of the council of elders of Yanga, Ibrahim Akilimali hajalipa that the membership fees, something that linamwondolea reputation as a member, but amelithibitishia Akilimali newspaper that he is alive member since his card amelipia a whole year.
However, Akilimali speaking by phone and this newspaper later yesterday, he said that he is a member legal and he has the right to attend the meeting because amelipia his card for the one.
Alipie said that since his card is six months have passed so still has six months other aliolipia time before the end of the year.
Manji said after the agreement of the general meeting held the practice pitch will start to be built within 90 days in the area which is Gezaulole Kigamboni according to the contract that was signed by Yanga Yetu.
Moreover, Manji said about the issue of the signing of the contract with the board of trustees against the company Yanga Yetu everything kitajadiliwa at that meeting, where members are required to have earlier while being the security.
He said if there will be a conflict of when it comes between him and Yanga, then the members that is watakaoamua as he can to continue or to sit aside, he is ready to obey any decision.
Manji said instead of running members in the media to talk about the issues of the club are required to come out in large numbers at that meeting so as to contribute to the benefit of Yanga.
This emergency meeting is taking place while the tension kukiwepo way ukodishwaji contract of Yanga Club to the company of Yanga Yetu ulivyosainiwa while ukikiuka some of the important procedures.


