
Rangers yaahidiwa scholarships to participate CAF ikitwaa GOtv and John ASHIHUNDU post Uchukuzi SC imehakikishiwa Rangers enough funding to represent if Kenya in the competition of the Association Cup (CAF Confederations Cup) ikitwaa title of GOtv Shield.
Akizungmza yesterday just one day after the club to qualify for the finals of this year the GOtv Shield Cup, the head officer of the club, John Tanui said he has hope and that squad kilichoibuka with a win of 4-9 against Western Stima through penalty shootout after the match ended hazijafungana losers.
"Tul i J iandiki sha GOtv in the competition of tax with the aim of winning and represented Kenya in and we're very ready to fulfill the dreams," added Tanui.
We will give them our players "sponsorship who want this time they are preparing to meet and Sofapaka fainalini," added.
"Posts Corporation Corporation of Kenya is behind this team and we will make sure that all the players wanatunzwa well than previously.
At the same time, Executive Secretary of the AFC Leopards, Timothy Lilumbi amewatetea fans of the club following the claims that walizua havoc and kutibua semi-final match of the GOtv, on Monday.
Bugha fans who threw the field every kind of equipment and destroyed the vehicle of the players of the Leopards together with private of the their defender, James Situma.
Lilumbi said that those involved in the violence are not real fans but the Leopards were wahuni who were with bad intentions.
"Those our fans were; our fans hawangeharibu then which themselves walichanga kulinunua money, the fans of our club cannot kushanbulia players.
Waliovuruga peace on Monday are people who may walinu nu l iwa and our enemies.
"Is the work of the police to arrest and criminals to take appear in court," added Lilumbi.
"Us as the club tunashutumu strongly actions, and all those involved should were arrested.
Sorry so walioumia people at the time of the tension, he added.
Waliumia after several people to deal with the police officers after scoring the second goal zikibakia Sofapaka five minutes match ended


