Defense waimarishwa Bugando Hospital Mar 08, 2013

During the efforts of the killers in searching for Father Evaristus Mushi continue in Zanzibar, in Mwanza, the leadership of Bugando Referral Hospital umeimarisha security for those who go to the hospital for various activities and especially to see patients, Good Citizen, limeshuhudia.
The basis of that decision which is alleged that is the response of the reports of threats that are provided by some people about the state of calmness in Mwanza and religious institutions, especially in big without caring is that more benefits for all, Tanzania.
The state of access to inspect the hospital is different and it was previously where patients were only entered the surgical without any inspection ukichilia far inspection of bags and bags during the from.
For now, the procedure has become a special machine to the discovered kielectroniki metals and equipment and in his type of visitors with bad intentions.
Several sources of this newspaper vimeeleza that the action was a result of several incidents that are not normal, for example, kutumwa for a short message of mobile phone to explain kulipuliwa threat to the hospital.
Kutumwa which is alleged that message to some of the leaders of Bugando Referral Hospital, and therefore those leaders give weight those reports on the way to strengthen security.
Director of the hospital, Dk.Charles Mjinge, has explained to one of our journalists of that, although the administration of haujabaini hospital, especially those of reasons why someone would decide blasting part as the hospital where wanalazwa and all kinds of people are supposed to be treated, they have decided to kujihadhari because the issue is not something to assume.
"Tukipokea we sms (short messages) about the conspiracy for people to come and blasting gas in the hospital, in a normal, it was a must to take action kuimarsiha defense as usual move, though, the truth is that we do not see a reason why someone come to the hospital, Doctor alipue" explained.
Majinge short message, along with that there have been several incidents of people to visit at the hospital in inayotia doubt, including the report of people wanaosadikiwa having all Arab origin to their residential areas Mapdri wanaofanyakazi in Bugando University and at the hospital that is close to the hospital.
Those visitors are kuulizia and to their residential houses (mapadri) without having the primary reason for wanting to know and even the mention could wanayemtafuta.
It is said that the situation started to doubt in the hospital after the victims of incidents of violence that occurred in the village Buseresere, Geita province to be taken were admitted to the hospital where some of the visitors walioanza to come out to visit the sick were wakitiliwa doubt and others wakikutwa and things like nondo iliashiria, a situation that needs to strengthen the defense.
"Is true after those victims been here our guards started to see the visitors who were wanatiliwa doubt, there are others arrested and nondo, now the issue as, that is not a very common for someone who comes to the hospital treatment or to greet tukadhani patients, it is important for the safety of our patients tuimarishe defense," says.
Mwema citizens wanted to know from him as the situation, it means that the hospital Bugando is now in danger and what his advice to patients, family and relatives of the patients who must go to the hospital for services.
"First tunatibu niwahakikishie citizens that we all kinds of citizens, our guide is kumtibu a patient without worrying about other things of his faith, tribe or anything, for a patient is a patient.
About the safety of this hospital, we secure these are just a usual move to strengthen the protection, or people wasiogope or any worry at risk of that amount, it is only to strengthen security measures, people should not worry "clarified that director.
Guaranteed safety in that hospital unaungwa is backed by the Police Commander of Mwanza, Ernest Mangu, who said that if it is the issue of to enhance security in the hospital is in the process of just normal.
"Take normal action only kiulinzi and we tunawasiliana and partner with them if there will be anything litakalohitaji strength of police, we're not only strong Bugando but also all areas tumeimairsha defense and we have no worry and that, Commander Mangu" explained.


