
Ruto achemsha residents Bondeni and new party WYCLIFF KIPSANG, Barnabas BII and Leonard ONYANGO HATUA Bomet Isaac Ruto, the governor of a new party has prompted different feelings in areas of the Rift Valley while some of the residents saying that that is a plot to distribute votes to the community of Wakalenjin.
Those youths from Wajir West Pokot, the Elgeyo Marakwet / and Baringo under the United; their Kerio Valley Youths Association (KVYA), claimed that the new party of Mashinani Development Party of Kenya (MDPK), kinalenga sabotaging the leadership of the Deputy President William Ruto.
Speaking in the area of Chesoi, chairman of KVYA Joel Kimaiyo and the Secretary General Jackson Merinyang reiterated that the Governor Ruto, he was going against the wishes of the residents of the Rift Valley.
"Governor Ruto and his party leadership analenga sabotaging the deputy president and kusambaratisha efforts to unite the residents of the Rift Valley, Mister" said Kimaiyo.
"But a governor deserves to understand that his plot haitafaulu.
Certainly Governor Ruto anajichimbia the grave of political "akaongezea, the chairperson.
Governor Ruto Merinyang wanted to support the deputy president, who is the leader of the residents of the Rift Valley as he wants to be elected again that the governor Bomet in the coming elections.
Mister Kimaiyo, denied the claims that the new party of Jubilee kimekumbwa Party and the opposition in the Rift Valley.
"Out the truth is that many of the residents of the Rift Valley have agreed embracing new party after the deputy president, Mister kutuelezea Ruto at his home in the area of Sugoi that the aim of the Jubilee Party is to unite, Kenyans" said Mister Kimaiyo.
"In every community there are people who do not unity and in the Rift Valley area that person is the Governor Ruto.
And that is the democracy, "akaongezea.
Merinyang claimed Nairobi. is that the Governor Ruto anatumiwa and politicians from outside with the aim of sabotaging the leadership of president and deputy kuzua division before the general elections in 2017.
"Tunashindwa understand why our brothers Governor Ruto hakujifunza anything from who were ministers Franklin Bett, Musa Sirma, Henry Kosgey, Magerer Langat and Sally Kosgei waliopinga Mister leadership of William Ruto, the year of 2013 then found in the political cold, Mister" said Kimaiyo.
However, the party of MDPK kimeungwa is backed by some of the residents who have not been satisfied by the Jubilee party kitakachotumiwa Party and President Kenyatta vying for the presidency next year.
"Kuvunjiliwa far for political parties and form the new party of JP kunaturudisha in the era of darkness of one party," said Mathew Kosgey from Wajir Nandi.
MDPK party is expected to announce his mwaniaji useneta in the by-election Wajir Kericho.


