
Give birth parents affect the behavior of the growth of my children a student one served kuniambia that she wishes his children wasitazame Swahili films, because the treasure ethics but not fulfilling his dream because the neighbors and some of his brothers wanamuangusha.
"Mwalimu I very much my children wasitazame film these, one day came my son akaniuliza mother, meaning the baby is what?
I told him it means a child, my son he refused and say why the artist X was akimuita that the artist Y Baby? "Alinisimulia.
When you are a parent should be able to control the use of communication agencies can be kumharibu Mwanao.
These agencies vikitumika well have a great contribution to the development of Mwanao.
There are programs of vinavyowajenga children children mentally and ethically.
These programs have the Swahili language or the other, foreign vinapaswa given a big position instead of the programs ajabuajabu visivyomsaidia anything a child.
We are parents who also tukishinda home at the end of the week then don't have joy to the children.
Our work is to look at news reports from Al Jazeera, the BBC, CNN and other channel the international levels.
When we are done with the news tunahamia the English Premier League, and day and we Bundasliga.
Hatukatai to check the news and different games, but remember that your children they should be given the opportunity to watch the Tv and considering that many programs the children there are in the days to the end of the week.
The parent who your habit'ang'ania 'remote control' educational and your children kunawajengea Tv watching the habit of selfishness and kutopenda partner and others.
Usishangae ukiletewa also charges and your children have a small Mwanao unapoondoka and anakaimu on top television until utakaporudi.
Also something this can give an opportunity for your children to go to watch the neighbors Tv where he can learn that behavior.
Recent days, we have witnessed the emergence a generation habit zinazotia Ukakasi.
Behavior problems which have been on the streets, in school and at home.
Unfortunately there is no one anayeangaika to know what the source of those behaviors that are done by the surprise of their youth.
Most parents wameishia kulalama about the movements of their youth so without knowing what steps to combat the problem.
Also there are parents who the responsibility of limewashinda upbringing and decided to kuuachia globalization uwalelee their children.
These wanaowasifia parents their young boy that when there are confirmed and wanaposuka hair, kutoboa ears, in playing the disco, to wear milegezo.
The truth is that there is a relationship between the success of the child and his behavior in general.
This is the truth that many parents hawajaufahamu or they have the understanding, but wanajifanya kutoufahamu.
Experience shows that the students that are doing well in school wametokana yanayozingatia upbringing and values from their parents and the community that surrounds them.
The drop in the level of education especially for primary schools and the upbringing kumechangiwa parents in their children.
Right now tunashuhudia to a large extent many students of class seven finishing without to learn how to read and write.
Together with the fact that there are other reasons that largely contribute about the condition of the drop in the success of the children, but parents can't kujitenga and the problem.
The biggest reason contributing in turning bad development of the child is absenteeism retail and the last.
The problem of absenteeism linawakumba students whose parents have no time to follow closely the development of their child kitabia and academically.
I have ever them to ask one teacher in Mwanza; so 'is how many parents arriving in school at least once kuulizia development of their children?
"There are parents who come, but it is very few who hawafiki 10 even in a total of more than 400 children that we have here, even ukiwaita in their school sessions many hawafiki," alinijibu.
About the relationship of good behavior and success in class this teacher continues to say: "Throughout the period of my service nimeshuhudia teacher as many students who are doing well is those with good behavior and doing badly is those with movements and behavior mibaya".
His motion inaungwa hands with another teacher from the district of Hai who speaks ": We teachers tunakuwa close to the students whose parents following up on the development of their children and provide a close partnership" for teachers.
Shadidu Ndossa is a member of the education and mhadhiri University of St John.
0756681371


