
That give the by-election value Judge Francis Nyalali grave on February 27, 1991, the president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi aliteua the commission president, and to do the research and get answers about the requirements of the Tanzania if they want the system of many political parties or remain and the system of one party.
The commission, iliongozwa and the former chief justice of Tanzania, Francis Nyalali and did work for a whole year.
February 17, 1992, President Mwinyi being given the report about the views and recommendations of the citizens about the system of one or many parties.
Answers that were released by the commission of Judge Nyalali is that the system of many political parties ulikataliwa and Wa Tanzania by 80 percent.
For that reason is for only 20 percent were ready for the many political parties.
Of Tanzania in large numbers, they were not ready for their system of many parties is not because they were not wakivipenda, except waliulizwa hawakijui and something that they did not have the understanding about its benefits.
The report of the commission Nyalali shows that the introduction of the multi party system in 1992, forcing a kulifanywa for.
Few people with energy walioona the importance of the many political parties in promoting democracy, many waliwaburuza waliokataa.
The father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere was one of the people on the front line to the nation liachane and the system of one party inviting and many political parties.
Even CCM, walimnunia Mwalimu Nyerere when akipigia chapuo many parties.
Briefly is that of walilazamishwa Tanzania into the system of many parties.
Even now, many people they do not know the importance of many political parties.
The by-election results on January 22, this year, big parliamentary by-election in the constituency Dimani, Zanzibar and 19 ward in Tanzania Mainland so as to fill the positions that were clearly from different reasons.
Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) them great success by winning Dimani parliamentary to grab 19 ward, while the Party of Democracy and Development (Chadema) kikiambulia which is only one ward round, Babati, Manyara.
What kilichojiri at the by-election are the ones that kimemwongezea Judge Nyalali value while sleeping, because the grave whose level has continued to show that the true Wa Tanzania by 80 percent they were not ready for the system of many parties.
25 years have passed since the commission of Judge Nyalali ilipomkabidhi President Mwinyi the report, meanwhile, this is the year of 25, since the system of many political parties vilivyoruhusiwa obedient to the sound of a few.
In his year of 25, it seems obvious that even the commission of Judge Nyalali ingefanya his research now, maybe the answers yangekuwa yaleyale, that is only 20 percent of the Tanzania wangetaka many parties.
The election results in 19 of the Tanzanian mainland, hayaakisi even a bit the results of the 2015 general election which for nearly 40 percent of the votes of Tanzania walipigia parties opposition parties for the presidency and the members of parliament.
Those results hayafanani even and the number of opposition members of parliament who are now who is 32 percent.
The results of the by-elections have shown to win by CCM 95.2 percent, while the opposition umebeba 4.8 percent.
In that logic, 25 years after the introduction of the system many political parties, the situation is so bad for the opposition parties.
Vinaonekana have more hard work to do a general election 2020 than even it was between the year 2010 to 2015.
Utayari opposition to Judge Nyalali he handed over 25 years since his report of the commission, the results have shown that the greatest problem which linaviweka in a difficult state opposition parties in the country is the absence of utayari system itself.
Reason for the lack of utayari method of many political parties is or kutokuona people benefit of the system itself or to know then kuukandamiza deliberately to usikue.
Kilichojiri at the repeat elections for a total kinaonyesha that people they do not know the benefits of many parties and not ready to accept.
The real situation has shown that the system of many parties is not friendly politics of Tanzania.
Lack of friendship is the reason of many conflicts emerging at the election.
The state was not attractive in the by-election.
19 ward and only one province vimeleta zogo big, so, ingekuwaje if the elections ungehusisha although five constituencies?
Dimani Zanzibar, the situation was bad.
There are complaints that the agents of the candidates of opposition parties, CUF, ACT-Patriots Civilian and walitolewa outside and the managers of the elections in some of the centers.
Reason happened so is claims of the presence of several errors like the existence of two books, the voters, the existence of voters who ulitiliwa doubt their legitimacy, the shape of the voters others were not resembles the picture vitambulisho.Mawakala walipohoji wakatolewa outside.
The by-election one province and County 19 caused a bomb to be used for other have the strength of the dollar.
Different parts of the country, it was reported the existence of tension between the police and the voters of different parties.
Is still there is no problem that is understanding and haliwahusu ordinary citizens alone.
Improvement in the system of many political parties utengenezwaji are caused by the two ways; brought up and was received.
What is the tradition of citizens depends on how the system itself unavyolelewa and laws of the country.
When it emerges that the system of many parties seems to is an enemy of the state, there you will see the citizens they fear kuupokea with two hands.
When it emerges that support the opposition parties competitor is okay and that the dollar, even if watavipenda people to the opposition parties, wataogopa only.
Must opposition parties to have a friend of dollar and friendship uonekane themselves.
The leaders of the opposition parties see themselves free to cooperate with the government organs in accordance with the law of the country and those viwaone opponents not enemies.
The system of many political parties are there for the purpose of turning the stadium in a democratic elections can be.
That instead of just one party one contestant then apigiwe vote either yes or no, there is the field until to elect.
Instead of one party stopping the two people then anayepata votes is the one who is the winner, there is and many parties vinasimamisha various qualified candidates then wanawanadi for voters who are free to choose wamtakaye.
The system of many parties ulipitishwa and kutamkwa and the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania together with that of Zanzibar.
Therefore, is a system that condition ulelewe.
Vinapaswa parties into vikijiona elections have the strength of the participation.
Conflicts and violence is the lack of ashirio equally.
The condition of his absence from equality between the parties to participate in the election and tension of dollar against the opposition parties, huonyesha haitendeki rights.
People are cutting up the overall results have shown that 19 that were involved in the by-election in Tanzania mainland, the number of voters had reduced by compared to significantly, it was in the 2015 general election.
An example one is Kijichi Ward, Dar es Salaam that his voters for more school reduced from the year before it was two-thirds.
That situation occurred in various areas yaliyofanya the by-election.
The year 2015, voters were 16,290 and the elections of January 22, this year, waliopiga votes is 5,274.
As utachukua the number of 16,290 as 100 percent, then waliopiga votes this year is 32.4 percent, for that reason, 67.6 percent waliopiga votes in the 2015 general election did not vote last weekend.
Together with the CCM party, Chadema, ACT-Patriots and CUF appearing to do a good campaign to educate citizens, still hawakujitokeza people for good number.
Voters wamepungua instead of the increase.
Reduced the number of voters his translations are people giving up, that hawayaoni their expectations in the ballot boxes of voting.
Wanapoacha citizens voting is something kuogopesha.
Even anayeshinda hupaswa asking the amount of its legitimacy as has won by a small number of voters.
Luqman Maloto is a journalist, and analyst adviser of social issues, politics and art.
Is the owner of the website he did Genius that is available on the postal address www. luqmanmaloto.com network


