
After Oscar there is World Iskariot has changed in a big way, there are around different climate, D zinatangazwa a difference every day and fall into the research on air, technology increases and money zinanuka.
The rich, they are looking for live and where they should put on more money every day inavyojiandika at the new calendar and every mshale unavyosogea o'clock.
A new, be it with entertaining the or kuchukiza, ilimradi will be maintained pua zinafunguka and there is no other anayemnyima breathing.
Every goats anakula for a length of his imetoweka, peace and it is possible that even in the park in pundamilia and nyumbu were hawaishi one area and or hawategemeani again.
Everyone who two feet wants to ensure that is bigger than another speed and athletics in search of hazimaliziki success.
In soccer ziliwahi the presence of oil funds from there Arabuni, these zimedumu, then zikazoeleka.
Zimeishi in England, France and zikawepo zikaendelea spread.
Zilileta, a heart disease and stroke by some of the owners of American and being waliwaza who benefit than misuse of money.
These or their hawakumuwaza Kaisari, hawakuwaza his sins and instrument and that the thoughts of Iskarioti and greed for money.
Yalilipa oil and had a different area of investment than a way to get to the world in the way that they would have their waliyojisikia and how to mention inayokaribiana and Abramovich or Glazer Usmanov by women.
Good luck to them is that even in their plans was last in this game for a long time and that is why it's not a surprise to see the registration of previously Paris St Germain and Manchester City was of the leaders who are people of soccer as Leornado.
Emerged in Russia, Zenit St. Petersburg, wakawepo Anzhi Makhachkala and others who met Warusi funds waliochanganyikiwa, Warusi who wanted to show their strength and weight of their bags.
Wakaendeleza what modern kilichoitwa reformed for the Arsene Wenger and entered into the life of money which could make him Raheem Sterling that next player behind the little Ricardo Kaka.
It is in this period of time and the club were not vifuani value compared to the presence of the rich in the club.
Is this period that started that look for rare type of Steven Gerrard through Raheem Sterling, Dennis Bergkamp through the name S is this period that Wa could have ready to leave United kulikompa new life to be paid money to buy of Geita.
Jengwa Russia, attained the good luck for the existence of the fire again, kufuru of with names like Eto'o lea ikabaki world to live with his knee while vingin clubs to live in the pace of Waara Chester City and those waliop soccer life yakawa t ZIA there, the world iliyowah women Del Piero, Pavel Ned esco Totti until Ryan for England and Carragher or its ikaanza leave ik, his faith.
Has followed a new world anayevaa jersey residing in the neighborhood that is any time anaw his club for money zit world that Higuaini An money asiyostahiki AM, the world try to continue believing Pogba has value kulik Ronaldo while Antoine Gr jipanga to break the record in the coming.
This false continued in China, have emerged with the new arrived and their pride.
What to who mnafikiria against them, who they have money and vojisikia.
Their money can K Mount Kilimanjaro uhame Tabora ukatii them.
Wanam degrading zaji dream remembered by many especially which Ballon D'or and the European uc hauendi apart from Lionel Messi or Cristiano their R Finance zinabadili ribu Brother kiwa comprising thoughts and have been able to change the behavior of slightly and America and K United Arab Emirates many where they went during J sha to leave and given month China wanashawishi VIP vilitakiwa to continue kutum watazamani of many young players in the world, amba and the opportunity to continue kup not at their club that haw again and or Wanawe to hear.
Aliyewashtua wen can be a player OS tos.
This player was his club before the new arrival who now Antonio Conte, aliis until night, and it may be darkness likafika again with U aliendana reason to go and a while.


