
TFF regulations put the open competition last week, the issue of the player of Simba, Novert Lufunga lilichukua the position in the news headlines after the soccer team kumkatia police appeal after the team kumjumuisha in the list yet has a red card.
Iliikatia police appeal Simba on what terms that ilimchezesha Lufunga in a game of the Federation Cup last week.
In that game, Simba won 2-0.
In his appeal, police ipewe victory wanted as a result of the action of Simba kumvalisha jersey that player.
However, TFF ilitupilia apart from the police appeal for information that haikukidhi the criteria because it did not and kuambatanishwa at Sh300,000 that are required to appeal.
However, together with TFF to throw away the appeal, there have been various complaints the rules, regulations and procedures of the competition for what is explained as a problem a big part of the FA Cup, will be supervised by a central rules of the Premier League.
Basically, what is needed is for TFF to create policies that zitafanya every independent in that competition with its procedure.
Even if some of the regulations zinafanana areas, there are only zitapishana regulations.
Regulations in the FA different to be the Premier League and to eliminate the controversy that can come out.
A good example is the principles of the FA Cup, as well as being used those of the Premier League, the FA Cup is the knockout stage so we must there are yanapishana areas.
Tunadhani is good for the TFF through his committee technical ikaangalia how to create regulations for every position in that competition is there and it is possible to do so.
Simplifying things by having one regulations in different competitions kunaleta controversy.
A good example is the regulation 16 (2), which says the Federation Cup competition of Azam Sports HD yataongozwa and these rules and regulations the mother of the league VPL, FDL & SDL.
The committee of the TFF will have the responsibility of going through the, to discuss and make a decision on top of all the events happening every round according to the rules of this competition and the league (VPL, FDL & SDL) zinavyoelekeza.
Another area has said, the Federation Cup competition of Azam Sports HD is the knockout stage, the use of the principles of the league yatahusisha yanayoruhusu areas operations of the knockout stage.
This is one weakness of regulations, because the premier league competition does not have the knockout stage.
Another problem is that the rules of the FA Cup that don't have the section kinachozungumzia, should be a red card or yellow.
Due to this mikanganyiko, that is why tunaitaka TFF whether and regulations of every iziweke open competition and early before the start of the games that the club is required kuzielewa and kuzizingatia.
But this event, it should be a lesson, not only for Simba and TFF, but by other clubs of the Premier League or to participate in the competition with the official process to which units vitasaidia keep memories for the sake of the club.
As kungekuwa and records, the issue of Lufunga lisingekuwa and the position.
The leaders of Simba, TFF everyone could have analifahamu and lisingetokea and causing the complaints.


