
Memories of former ARSENAL- -UWANJANI BRASIL by Sweden, January 26, 2013

This news iliandikwa five years ago... the Emirates Memorial... on Wednesday on the 26th of March, 2008 I went to watching the match between Brasil and Sweden the Arsenal north of London.
That day different countries were zikipimana for the friendly matches.
But it's said it is friendly kupimana strength before the world cup litakaloanza September every a place.
I don't know if the Taifa Stars measures go, but these days inshallah tunajitahidi, again our coach Mbrazili tunanusa at least the size of the balls.

Then I went to Emirates.
Inside the match there are wasiotoa eyes on the field.
Every player, popularly known as Frederick Lundberg (Sweden) or Robinho (Brasil) akigusa football zinapasuka noise, vigelegele utadhani limeingia goal.
And this balls major nikienda husisimkwa and happening in the field than even the ball themselves.
There are unaopigwa music.
Find the types of people.
Zogo tele tele.
For instance, the year 1988 I went to Maracana Stadium (famous Rio De Janeiro) Brasil kuitazama encounter with Argentina.
Popular player Diego Maradona was that is the star in those days.
Wabrazili and Wargentina hawapatani is like until he and dog.
I was nikivutiwa and usanii of Maradona (sidhani and I have seen that as a good player from that day, maybe Zinedine Zidane); but sikuthubutu cheering.
Fans of Brazil wangeniua.
The ball something interesting...

Then the day before yesterday the Arsenal, is that kilichonifurahisha "Mexican Wave" iliyanzia during the World Cup Mexico lost (Pele and his colleagues) in 1970.
Inapokuja everyone is taking anaamka hands maktaimu on foot, air sits again, that is the whole stadium, it becomes as unawasiliana.
Then there are vigelegele and joy linapokosekana goal.
The noise from OOOO and AAAA... to mpirani is to attend the karamu, to meet and human beings wenzako, screamed, kufoka and kulalama.
This is unapoona strength and inspiration of life.
Was umejazana Stadium.
Utadhani umezungukwa forest and insects, flowers and chemchemi.
Life.
Strength.
Former ulisemekana is the ball junction madume (especially in Europe) for bad voice singing wakilewa careless and insult.
These days has changed things.
There are people who are, for men and women, vizee to youths.
Brazil beat Sweden 1-0 but to me is not important.
The importance is that in the situation frightening, entertaining the and an.


