
Minister Mwakyembe ACHANGAMKIWA and East by the British WATANZANIA London November 12, 2012

The Minister of Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has assured the Wa Tanzania and the visitors that the efforts will continue to be done by the government to improve the transportation Bongo.

Speaking in London the other day in "" annual meeting of the union, Tanzania and the British (Britain-Tanzania Society) and the sponsorship of Development (Tanzania Development Trust), said a wide still much doing ateuliwe from four months ago.
Minister Mwakyembe likewise clarified discussion about the new constitution inayotegemewa mentioned in the year 2015.

Answering questions from brought in from the Whites and Tanzania who attended the session Central Hall, Westminster, a few steps near the England (Whitehall), Mwakyembe, who is the member of parliament for Kyela, alifahamisha being one of the problem lililojaribu solutions looked for recently is the deterioration of the port of Dar es Salaam.
He said the ministry I had to change the leadership of the port after the international report iliyoichamba Dar that one of the bad port world zisizotekeleza his work good enough.
"The port of Dar es Salaam has the ability to feed the economy of the whole country ikiendeshwa well, meeting" explained uliomsikiliza keenly.
"Tumezungukwa and many countries that sea and which zinatutegemea transporting its cargo.
By then, the Ministry of Transport ikilala "linalala and the nation in general.

Giving several examples of transport in a bad state in the country, Doctor Mwakyembe aliongelea for inspiration and hope about the construction of roads and rail.
"We have still a lot to do.
Our railway is of a very old.
Of from Dar to Kigoma and Mwanza ilijengwa for instance the era of Germany therefore yabidi made "afresh.

He gave an example of solutions to the problem of the traffic congestion in Dar es Salaam, where were money to another way provinces zimetumika easing travel between the Ubungo to town and Makanga until Kurasini (for affordable fares 500 shillings) and a short time of twenty minutes.
Akiwaelemisha political present about the development of Tanzania, the minister said that the country now unahusu unaosisimka debate the constitutional reforms which required "ioane and the life of the 21st century".

Explaining the history of the constitution Tanzania for the English language fasaha, the minister who is an expert of the law, he mentioned that important years 1961 (after freedom), 1963 (construction of the new nation), 1965 (coalition), 1977 birth (CCM) then 1983 and passed the policies of many parties in 1992.
Many questions are asked about the travel and eating uliochangia uzorotaji corruption that is causing a very big accident and fears of the mainland and islands.

And even the official speech baaada, during the tea to get, the citizens and the visitors continued kumsonga and kumzunguka Minister wakimjuza for a fire questions.
Hakuonyesha leader any signs of tired of the enthusiasm.

Thanking the minister, one of the officers of the union of the British and Wa Tanzania, Miss.
Valerie Leach (runs educational activities Bongo) said inawapa visitors the heart that Tanzania has wanaokinzana leaders and bribery and corruption as it was the era of Mwalimu Nyerere.
Earlier Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe alikaribishwa for information on how to die alivyoshaokoka twice (a car accident and skin diseases) due to his decision to try to continue with the community.
Earlier ulielezwa meeting various projects inayoendelezwa and the sponsorship of Development (Tanzania Development Trust).
Among the projects that is kukarabatiwa houses for the elderly Tanga, development of small industries 37 mainland and islands, the development of the youths that do not have the work and equipment for the workers of the hospital, Lindi avoid cholera.

Explaining his will help in the development of the community of Tanzania, mwanamakati BTS, Julian Marcus said the efforts of zinatokana members and private contributions and dedication and without any payments.
This event Saturday likewise ilihudhuhuriwa and our Ambassador in England, Honorable Peter Kallaghe and the director of business center in London, Yusufu Kashangwa.

BTS Community was established in 1975 and Britons, Tanzania and to promote the relationship between the two countries.
Is led by the former president, Ali Hassan Mwinyi.

The coming session BTS kitafanyika University of the African language and Asia (School of Oriental and African Studies-SOAS) in London to discuss the democracy and media in Tanzania, on 6 December.
Every citizen and a friend if the Tanzania.


