
The interests, the ranks in natives uasi vilichochea army 1964 May 31, 2012

In the first part of this article last week, we saw how the minister of foreign affairs and defense of that time, Oscar Kambona, alivyoweza to convince soldiers walioasi January 21, 1964, to return to the camp, on the promise to deal with their complaints.
We saw also the way the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius K. Nyerere, alivyoweza to escape uses rebels who went to the State House shari, Model akaenda kujificha pasipojulikana place.
Teacher alijitokeza suddenly two days later, AKASHIKA power again.
However, four days later, those policemen waliasi again.
Why?
Follow the second part and last to get the answer.
The second day after his return to the camp, the police officers were seen rebels kufuraha to see the English Wakiondoka as walivyoahidiwa and Kambona.
But one person between them was not and happy as others: Sajini Francis Higo Ilogi.
During the funeral of two soldiers who were killed that day, streets and Mwarabu one during the rebellion, Sajini Ilogi left kuzumgumza and Kambona, or kumtazama come.
So, it is because he had promised not to implement Kambona all?
Is it because hakupandishwa rank after leading the rebellion?
That day ilipokewa reports that the task force of the second was Tabora it was kimeasi, after getting the news that their Colito were wameasi.
It is possible or they have not received a report that of Colito were returned to the camp; or walifahamu, but wakataka them watekelezewe several things in their squad.
During the Road Tabora kikiendelea and rebellion, ilipokewa on the phone from Kambona, that he was appointed captain Sam Hagai Mirisho Sarakikya, that the head of the task force.
That time Sarakikya and others were officers have been arrested and put the prisoner.
Akatolewa Sarakikya prisoner, and the phone isomwe in order; then removed wasimame "equal leg," wafungue beneti and to give a shot.
Wakamtii them.
That night, Sarakikya made plans of transport officers of the English to Dar es Salaam and finally their homes.
The incident of January 21st, and that from Tabora altogether with it was in Kenya, Uganda and Zanzibar, did a warning to the British Government, by taking extra 2,000 police over East Africa.
Therefore, their submarine called Rhy, may be imetia dock hima coast region of Dar es Salaam, and the other Centaur; iliyobeba plane, iliwasili and 600 soldiers.
Three days after the rebellion of the first squad, Wednesday, January 23 in the morning, suddenly akatokea Nyerere has got a clear with Mama Nyerere and the minister of internal affairs, Job Lusinde akatembelea, every part of the city that was affected by the rebellion.
Thursday, January 24, was well; but on Friday, January 25, the talks between the government and the rebels were seen due to start, wakaasi again.
Who was the leader of the second phase of rebellion?
Sajini Higo Ilogi again?.
Unlike rebellion January 21st, which hakushirikisha politicians, or having a political objective, these rebellion yaliingiliwa and new filimbi of politics.
The report of security reasons pictures showed that, the leaders of staff parties were wakikutana and walioasi soldiers at the camp Colito, and that those parties wimeandaa were strike at the end of the week to join with the police.
Rebellion this second contagious yaliweza army of Kenya and Uganda, the same yakaasi, the same day, at the same time, and the same style.
Jomo Kenyatta and Milton Obote walizisoma marks ukutani times; force wakajiandaa urging the England off the rebellion.
Nyerere did not want to.
Hakuamini that his own force lingeweza kumhujumu, he and his government.
Started believing when walipomuonyesha security officers list of prospective ministers, organized by the rebels.
One of his people, he went to close more than him, that he has been asked accepts that the Vice President after a revolution.
Teacher akalowa; akayaamini those words, that his government was in danger.
11 o'clock, then gets 30: That day, the teacher akamwita at State House, the Deputy Ambassador of England, Mister F. Stephen Mills; akamwomba military support.
And without delay, Mills report him in London and kujibiwa that were yamekubaliwa.
And Oscar akaenda Kambona race at the British Embassy Bregedia Model amejificha Douglas who was on the whole week, requested help.
On the night of the day, Douglas and another officer, walinyatia to Centaur their submarine was imefichwa Coast.
Saturday, January 26;; 20: 12 o'clock in the morning, six helicopter from their submarine zilichukua Centaur 60 officers (including Bregedia Douglas) until the area near the camp Colito.
10 minutes later, at 6: 30, their submarine, and the other ship, that was the war, Cambrian Coast waiting; attacks started by casting kuwatisha beehives rebels.
From a distance of 20 meters, right, and with a lot of courage, Douglas akatangaza for a microphone, that was his authority has again; removed all the police order watoke "camp and weapons on the road" and sitting on the floor.
After 10 minutes without to see anything, he started counting, "one, two, ten....." soldiers of English wakafyatua rocket to the camp.
They started the rebels to surrender.
Another 10 minutes zilizofuata, 150 soldiers walijisalimisha, and 150 others after one hour.
Reach 30: 1 o'clock in the morning, all were wamesalimu; rebellion commandment yakawa yamezimwa in the exercise that five walioasi soldiers were killed, and five others injured.
There is no soldiers of the English out of 60 walioongoza struggle, aliyedhurika.
And for the whole week the rebellion, a citizen wasiopungua 17 were killed.
When soldiers of the British police force wakiwadhibiti rebels of Tanganyika, in Uganda and Kenya, where the force linachukua was like, at that time, and on the same style of Rangers' walioasi Jinja (Uganda), and in the 11 squad Bark-Lanet (Kenya).
Haielezwi is how Sajini Higo Ilogi was kuponyoka, akaonekana in the morning in your own foreign the International (Extelcoms), sending the phone mandishi to the secretary general of the United Nations (UN), U Thant, asked for help.
That phone ilisomeka ": Army of Tanganyika yametekwa and unknown soldiers.
Help quickly bring the Army of the United Nations.
Lieutenant Colonel ILOGI, general of Force ".
Turejee in our question the foundation who: Alichochea rebellion of our force in the year 1964?
Oscar Kambona?
John Okello?.
Kambona, was the responsible minister of defense force at that time, where was under his ministry.
Because of this reason, to participate in his kutuliza rebellion of the first phase, would not be taken that was and shares or that was knows that plan.
Is his courage only uliomtuma dealing with the situation.
As it could have and bad wishes to the government; and by considering how the situation alivyodhibiti wakamkubali, angeshindwaje kupindua mikonini force which was in the country for two consecutive days?.
Is it "field Marshal" John Okello?
No; he didn't have the time, because for the whole period since the Zanzibar revolution, was in the certificate documents of protecting and strengthening his administration Islands due to the threat of excluded by his rival who claimed hawakushiriki in a revolution.
Okello, led by the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar for two months in a row before being excluded.
Or haishangazi that, rebellion of these soldiers yaliweza infection to their Kenya and Uganda, considering that the army of these three countries yamezaliwa and armed wakoloni of English waliotawala those countries.
Therefore, in that period, and for the working environment at the time, their complaints yalifanana make the contestants through for their rights and manner.
I agree with and the opinions of Ambassador Abbas Kleist Sykes (akinukuliwa somewhere in the year 2001), that "rebellion, the army of Tanganyika Rifles (TR) earlier in the year 1964, resulted in a big way and delay to the commanders and to promote European Waafrika rankings, just like" for the police force and other workers in the government.
And that is what happened to the rebellion of Kenya and Uganda.
Or haishangazi that, the leaders of parties of workers joined by the rebels this second phase to bring down the government, due to the fact that, since the teacher alipositisha "exercise Africanisation" January walikwishaapa since 1963, not sleeping "" until comprehensible.
Due to the rebellion, the teacher alikifuta throughout the first squad (Colito Barracks) and chasing the work of the second 100 police squad, Tabora.
Alifukuza also 10 percent of 5,000 police officers who were by failing to perform their duties.
More than 400 people were arrested and questioned, including the leaders of employee unions; and 500 others walitiwa nguvuni under the law to prevent dangerous, but many waliachiwa.
With it to the staff in the country (TFL) lilifutwa, instead kikaundwa the Party of NUTA as the ruling party - TANU.
Teacher appointed Sam Hagai Mirisho Sarakikya that General, and the new force kumpandisha Bregedia that rank.
Early April 1964, British forces, left, and his position taken by the third squad, under the Nigerian Army Lieutenant Colonel James Pam.
Sajini Francis Higo Ilogi alipatikana and guilty of force uasi and closed 15 years, its partners to wakafungwa 13 out of five years to ten.
Said they are, "every tarnish has its" blessings.
Teacher added a minimum of the salary from military, insurance / = to 240 / = for a month.
But all the more important than is that, those rebellion yalitusaidia kujihoji and to know the kind of lililotakiwa force for our country like.
Force Yalituwezesha building completely afresh, tukapata "the Defense Force of Tanzania" (JWT), because the real force for the citizens and the citizens.


