
Every one of us contributes to the state of our country and WANDERI KAMAU

The image of the country husawiriwa and existing environment.
Likewise, a citizen of the country and they are also a great decision of how their state of life itakavyokuwa.
Due to that, sitokuwa worried saying that Kenya is a good example of the country with the "mnuko rundo" the rubbish.
Yes, we only example rundiko inukayo countries due to the evil in our community.
A clear picture inaachiliwa and malalamishi of citizens from the kulegea for our organization, especially the authority of the management of the city-in their ulegevu pay udumishaji waste and the cleanliness in the towns.
In several days ago, tumewaona the residents of several towns in the country protesting the increase in the rubbish-rate of even being unable to continue with their lives.
That is clear is that the community only inayougua.
Our disease is ethically.
For example, despite being given a warning kutoendesha vehicles during the only drunkards, those maonyo huchukuliwa kimzaha.
The cost of kutowajibika while has been is to continue the occurrence of road deaths.
An example of this is in the area of the accident that Salgaa, Nakuru on December 31 last year, where five matineja lost their lives.
Basically, it was revealed first some of the youths were wamewadanganya their parents that they were headed to the church.
And ijapokuwa immunity no accident, were drunkards, along with the driving a vehicle without a permit.
To me, the accident ingeweza kuzuiwa, if necessary regulations zingefuatwa.
Is sikitiko that those young people lost their lives while still mortality.
In the book of "Enemy of the People" Adui (of the people) the author Henrik Ibsen anafananisha uozo of one city in Norway and kutowajibika for his supervisors heads.
The residents of that town forced unclean drinking water, utepetevu of that unit of the management of water services in that town.
Main Kinaya is mayor of the town, Peter Stockmann, was on the front line to prevent one newspaper against to focus on those news.
Even those supervisors who appear to be ready to give a bribe to one doctor so that did not explain the truth about the health effects which yangekuwa with the water to the residents.


