
Mbeya town now tarmac roads every corner Dec 27, 2012

The dream of the residents of Mbeya town to see the changes and improvements in important infrastructure, finally, one has come true after the completion of the road that continues to be built right now in the country.
That road important iliyokamilika recently, is that of Airport- Samora inayohudumia, residents of the area, or Iyela Airport, as linavyofahamika stumbling block to many, which is complete tarmac.
However, together with the road to be completed and therefore easing travel communication between those areas, fear iliyowajaa those citizens is about the accident.
"With us now we have people after kuletewa tarmac roads.
The truth is like ninaota such, it will help to transport our produce from their farms.
We are the tunalisha Mbeya town for vegetables vegetables and fruits, "says a resident of the road Swaya after the start of the tarmac on Saturday last week.
Swaya village is on the outskirts of Mbeya, and is popular for vegetables, their being the main market in the city center, and therefore to the citizens of the area to them its importance is the transportation of their produce easily and swiftly.
Apart from transportation of crops from Swaya village, the completion of the road is a great relief for students studying Samora Secondary School who were they are forced to walk on foot for approximately two kilometers per day due to lack of transportation between Mafiat station and the school where the new road gets done right.
That road of 1.24 kilometers, known by the name Airport- Samora Road, is part of the roads of the length of 28 kilometers are available in a plan of the city's road construction of tarmac that started on November last year and is expected to be completed in June this year.
Engineer adviser from Techniplan SpA- Itali, M. Haq, says he is interested in and the level of the quality of the work kilichoonyeshwa and the company that builds the road CICO China.
He says the level of quality and effectiveness of the work walichokionyesha technicians in the construction of the road kinampa hope of the work to be completed on time and for the quality waliokubaliana in the contract.
The view of the expert unafanana and of the citizens of the city of Mbeya who's clearly satisfied them and the quality of the road for only kuiangalia, while some of the engineers from various cities included in the project in the country, wakibainisha that that amount kinathibitisha control in the tender for some of those involved Commission for popularly known as "" ten percent.
"Here there is no" ten percent, "that is why even the president of the company has come, again and his wife, you ten percent" "wanazodaiwa contractors, not less than 40 percent of all payments of work, that is why is forced revealing," says Engineer one from one of the cities in the country.
According to the acting secretary general, the Office of the Prime Minister (Education), Jumanne Sagini, the council of all the shortage in the country, the municipal councils and the seven Authority headquarters Dodoma (CDA), zinanufaika and the plan of the improvement of towns in the country that is being implemented by money from the World Bank (WB).
According to the Sagini, that plan unaogharimu more than 200 billion shillings, unahusu the construction of road infrastructure, madampo, markets, bus stations, taps and improving the environment.
Says among other things, that the implementation of those projects inatofautiana kutegemeana and the needs of every town and the municipality.
The road is a great relief to the residents of the City of Mbeya and the region as a whole, where now wanafunga this year of 2012 with three major projects to be proud of, because of Songwe International Airport, Mwanjelwa market and developing tarmac roads to be built in the city.
The completion of the road, the Airport-Samora kunafufua the hopes of the residents of the city who previously got up to an extent that it was not a surprise vijiwe questioning the validity of kuwakuta in their town given the status of the city, the main reason as well as expected lack yakienda things, and especially when walipolinganisha and the years before to status.
Is by the principle, some of the citizens in their vijiwe, hawakosi kuimwagia praise the government of President Jakaya Kikwete for the good work of inazozitekeleza development in the province of Mbeya, and especially the improvement of road infrastructure of the city.
Songwe Airport market, together with the Mwanjelwa vinatarajiwa launched any time from now, during the construction of tarmac roads in the city will be his continues, but some will be complete by June next year, has already enabled with a length of 28 kilometers.
Since December 13 this year, Songwe Airport started being used, and according to the manager of the stadium, Valentino Kadeha, the only thing expected is only officially launch that is expected to be done by President Kikwete.
However, the construction is only one thing in improving road infrastructure in here, the foundation is his protection, something which for the experience is a very big problem, not by the City of Mbeya alone, but to the whole nation.
According to the director of the City of Mbeya, Juma Iddi, the preparations have been held about the care of those roads, including meeting with leaders of the county and the estates and to explain to their role in supervising the care of those roads, including waste utupaji, where the city litahakikisha waste hazikai at "" maguba that are on the road, and that even the citizens them wameelimishwa ready.
"Citizens must should know that these funds (that are used to improve infrastructure of the city of Mbeya) is a loan from the World Bank, therefore," kuzilipa coming, says Iddi.
This conserving the infrastructure for social services, the acting secretary general, Sagini, anazichagiza the local government authority in the country to manage small laws that are about the cleanliness of the environment so as to protect the road in the country which he says huigharimu the country a lot of money.
Together with the construction of road infrastructure, the program of improving the City of Mbeya people (lifting) unahusu also constructing the main station passenger vehicles and cargo Nane area, the traffic lights, a waste (land fill).
Being built roads for money from the World Bank zimegawanywa in two phases.
The first phase will involve 13.2 kilometers by road through SAE kicking off at the electricity of TANESCO until the University of Theofilo Kisanji (TEKU) together with the road Airport through the fuel station Jacaranda until Bhanji, Forest area.
Another road at that phase is that of Commissioner Road Mnara which inanzia at Uhuru Weru Garden until towards Uzunguni, the road block T kicking off at Kabwe heading to the Church of KKKT Luanda until SIDO and fuel station the Oil Com Soweto, and that of starting Sea (TANESCO) to the clinic of Ituha.
It will involve the construction of roads and bridges water taps also minibuses kind of makarafati, the purchase of two vehicles for the purpose of the management of the roads, the machine kushindilia and another one of the fetching sand and stones more known as kijiko.
The second phase of the program will be and 14.6 kilometers and the second road will Sokomatola area together with his bus station the road heading to CCM, kicking off at Ilomba wards VETA to be slaughtered, before the meeting with itokayo Ilemi and heading to until Makasini Uyole county area and the road Provincial Hospital Milk yes to kicking off at Super Market.
Another in the second phase is together with the new Forest kicking off at which will collaborate with the Airport until SAE, kicking off at the road heading towards the main road Mbeya- Tukuyu Health Center heading to heading Secondary School.
Is in the second phase of the well will be built, where the Vehicle Abiria and Mizigo at Nane area, a rubbish because of dampo litachimbwa, the purchase of mizani for measuring the hole weight waste, three vehicles of rubbish (side loaders), four cars of waste kuzolea (skip Master), the containers for 109 waste (skip bucket) three vehicles vikusanya small and 200 waste.
According to the director of the City of Mbeya, in a portion of the second phase will also photos of the residence of the city (satellite image) that will help to improve the system of tax collection of buildings are being released, and more training to the officials about the collection of revenue, and putting the computer system of the work of the council of the city.
In the plan offers of the improvement of road infrastructure, the City of Mbeya only halitegemei that money from the World Bank, but litajenga eight kilometers tarmac spent money from his sources of income.
Those road include the Kambarage hospital kicking off at the K's until the parents of the hospital and the bus station Meta little the Meta, the road library of the province, all roads in circulation City Park, the TANU Sokomatola roads including the third and fourth, roads, visitors and street street Nonde, parked opposite vehicles Hotel area Sombrero and was City Pub and small stations for eight buses.
By using its money, the city of Mbeya litajenga ten kilometers of roads to the level of the year which will be installed with Changarawe tarmac, where his plan will be that is the beginning of the building sustainable ten kilometers of tarmac roads every year.
Among the concerns of a long time in the City of Mbeya, include lack of traffic lights where together with the noise from a long time of the citizens ziliwekwa at just one road itokayo Mafiat entering the city center.
However, the problems itabakia that history, ready for that project of putting the lights on the main road of Tanzania, The Zambia is complete and the lights lit.


