
Referee daughter anayejizatiti reach international level equivalent to Heroine Kirwa Silvester believed very rare to meet and netball how female especially in the areas of mashinani.
But in the area of Kitale, pamechipuka one who still attend to his stuff at ulingo of soccer.
Veronica Sangok (Finder) anafichua sha that can do this work which aliitamani pregnancies since and without any privileged.
But kustaajabisha even more the secret of his success; alimhusudu so much the referee of the level of international Kirwa Silvester.
Amejaliwa three children.
And if that whole aila imezaliwa and the blood of soccer, while continuing to Sangok kipenga, her husband and her child kifungua huchezea pregnant team of MOI Star and MOI-Star Youth.
The father while playing seven or number nine hukamata her child road ushambulizi defenders.
This lady who amejizolea praise not insufficient for a short period, but this ameonyeni that and the referee mpole and mtuvu, you cannot believe he can officiate matches.
The referee was born in this 1986 in the village of Kilima, MOI's Bridge where alilelewa and start his studies in primary schools in the school Kilima.
While in that primary school started sha up to the level of the province.
After doing the class joined the upili eight school of St playing football Wavu but later he started the best soccer in a group class seven.
Alichezea his school and even the Anne kuiwakili Kapsabet where he continued and kabumbu.
Completing school subjects for now, he is the nursery school teacher.
Before going to make urefa training, was one of the leaders of the MOI Stars, the team that her husband is a great striker, where alishikilia mtunza rank of treasure.
Started as a fun where every international Kirwa Silvester from here MOI's Bridge.
His work ilinifurahisha then nikatamani me one day nitafikia his level, "Veronica has said.
He Veronica urefa training angetazama times, especially during matches where Kirwa angeisimamia.
"I was mesmerized by the work of the referee of upili went to nursery teaching college where in Nairobi.
At the trials race between has 12 sister, concluded the first one.
Kinadada is saying that it's only five who have completed the race.
At 77.7 points zikuwa exams got higher marks.


