Tudumishe exercises avoid diseases

It has been written by an editor

Imechapishwa: 19 October 2016

In yesterday's edition of the newspaper had news with the title of kisemacho that "eating foods that are not of nutrition waathiri" many.

According to the news, for now, many residents of major towns in the country like Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Tanga, Mwanza and Mbeya, faced with a non-communicable diseases and yasiyojulikana easily because of the use of food and drinks visivyozingatia nutrition.
Also, the report explained that the lack of food and nutrition, that cause various diseases such as diabetes.
The problem of usiozingatia by excessive consumption criteria is big in big cities due to the ease of the availability of food and drinks, and also lack of time and the areas of exercising.
Tunaunga support the statements by health professionals, including specialist doctors of non-communicable diseases, that there is a large number of people with those diseases, but they do not know if wanaumwa.
One of the specialist, Doctor Rose Hyness, says the investigation that was done by the institutions that deals with non-communicable diseases in the country, has shown that in the province of Arusha 30 percent of adult education, they are faced with diabetes diseases, which together and claimed to be caused by food, also yanachangiwa and not doing exercise.
Moreover, tunaunga support the statement given recently and adviser of the health issues in the country, Doctor Ali Mzige that the current system of life, and kuangamiza affects many human beings.
Doctor Mzige anataja several things to do so as to improve health and avoid various diseases that are not important to include and stop smoking of cigarettes and drinking alcohol.
According to Doctor Mzige, ban public smoking are in the probability of getting more than 40 diseases, which is dangerous to their health, like ugumba, tuberculosis, cancer diseases, heart, eyes and mouth and hair kunyonyoka, while drinking alcohol leads to 60 diseases such as the disease ini and reduce the CD 4 for AIDS patients.
Tunahimiza the activities of health checkups for voluntary ziendelee in all provinces in the country, because many people are patients, but they do not know and hospital treatment until hawaendi wanapozidiwa; a situation sometimes dying.
It is evident that many people, especially low-income earners, they don't have the time to test their health as a result of more to deal with the difficulty of life.
Many of them wanapojisikia kuumwa, hunywa indigenous drugs or buy medicine in the chemists without screening.
Wanapozidiwa then may at the hospital and found with great problems, so that the difficult kutibika.
Tunaiomba the government can continue to enable citizens to test their health; and if possible itenge special day of testing the health, as inavyotenga on cleaning which is every end of the month; and on planting trees nationally.
Tunasisitiza that a strategy to deal with various diseases must tubadilike and doing physical exercises for every day.
Exercises to do without a limit.


