
Read, read again is the life of a journalist to journalist, halifungwi class.
Hazijui library lock.
Students hawaendi the holiday.
Hawachoki teachers.
Query and kujibiwa is the style of life.
Read it's like kawa!
A new study in order to get.
Kujikumbusha so kutosahau.
Asking to gain additional skills.
So that the filling to exhume the treasure of knowledge, skills and technique.
Seeking remained professional alive.
December 2016 was the month of helping or waadishi enabling the Mwananchi Communications Limited (MCL) to prepare for good and a lot of work for the year 2017.
This time, who led the preparation of journalists was relations manager of MCL.
In the middle of December, before hawajatawanyika to many "eating" festive alichomoa andishi important and handed him every the author.
Was right: Unapokea andishi.
Is putting signed showing umelipata.
Unaondoka with it.
You kulisoma keenly and using its content in order to prepare to preserve the terms and conditions.
Andishi this is the list of instructions, and at the same time the criteria for measuring the work of the author of writing and be kuhariri what anachotaka news.
This list is important for the author.
Can use asking questions, kujitafiti and kujitathimini.
Is this list which relations manager of MCL aligawia journalists so that everyone should have the same instructions on to seek and to be kuzihariri news.
Allocated to instructions and evaluation during the festive season end and the beginning of the year; kulilenga telling journalists kutotopea in the celebration and kujisahau; but remain at work in your mind and to test for the work of the brain and their hands.
Let that we were entrusted to the list of the press.
Hatutafuata flow in number.
We're going to kuopoa.
Journalist Andishi linataka ajiulize if he has reports have weight and the value of that news.
Akijiridhisha then to continue collecting information and preparing the news.
So, what he wrote and called the news reporter, kinajibu all important questions - what located or kimetokea, about who or what, where, when, why and how?
Andishi linataka uonyeshe the importance of unachoandika and provide answers to the questions kimuktadha; for example about the characters, who, wasionufaika and the direction of unachoripoti.
The author is required to ensure anachoandika kimo special in the context and the history of inaeleweka so as to the readers to be able to unite the events even forecast the following.
All these yanamhusu the author and the Architect news.
If there is that the author hakuweka; then aone Architect and or ayaweke or amwagize ayaweke reporter; or andishi liwekwe aside wait to achieve the necessary information, making it the news.
The list of instructions and the criteria inauliza if has all the information of unachoandika confirm; inauliza if has the list of vyako sources of information - people or vidhibiti and if umejitahidi asking the perpetrators or all stakeholders in unaloripoti issue.
For many years there has been a problem with journalists to say and believe that there are two sides in everything; every the issue.
This is not true.
And there is no four sides "as" parts of the world.
Every the issue has many sides as anayetafuta anavyochimba reports.
Aliyegombana husband and his wife, not alone who are involved in the fight.
There is a neighbor aliyewaamua; mpitanjia aliyeshuhudia strife ulivyoanza; a fight anayekumbuka started yesterday or the day before yesterday; a member anayekumbuka waliishafika in front of him in the office of the neighborhood and their one offense; he confessed and asked neighbors who hukatishwa sleep for the noise from kick-nikupige and others.
It is not enough to ask two people and put hands work in the pocket that have ended.
There are many sides.
The list of instructions and the criteria that is special to commemorate, is one of the guidelines for the media that is under the Nation Media Group (NMG) including MC.
Linauliza: Umetaja vyako sources to commemorate the information to be understood and unachoandika kuthaminika?
Umeelekeza your news for special audience and not the jumlajumla and without the purpose?
Your readers they will not have an important questions which hukujibu?
So, the unachoandika is true?
Unakiandika correctly?
Unaeleweka - the language?
Umesoma your work and kuisahihisha before took the news in front as it?
The author is an editor of the social media Mwananchi Communications Limited wachapishaji of newspapers in The Citizen, Mwanaspoti and this.
For the questions and queries about those contact, and on the phone: 0713614872 or 0763670229; e-Mail: Ndimara @ yahoo.com or ntegambwage @ tz.nationmedia.com


