
Stunted wapungua Dodoma

It has been written by Basil

Imechapishwa: 5 October 2016

The problem of udumavu in Dodoma province, had decreased from 56 percent to 36.5 percent.

Speaking with this newspaper yesterday, the Nutrition officer in Dodoma province, Mary Boniventure said the new figures for the year 2015 / 2016, show that the problem had decreased to reach 36.5 percent from 56 percent of the statistics of the year 2010.
He said the problem also had decreased in Manyara region from 45 percent to 36.0 percent, the province of Morogoro from 44 percent to 33.4 percent.
Boniventure said udumavu is more than a length, the poor physical and mental growth, reduction of the ability to think and work.
"A child becomes and poor development in school, absenteeism and stop schools, on the side of adult education, poor production office, agriculture and livestock, entrepreneurship and others," said.
He said someone with the problem is a big possibility of getting the diseases, the children suffering from time to time with the probability of getting ukubwani non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, cancer and heart diseases.
He said, the life of a human being more depend on what happened in the first 1,000 days of his life.
"1,000 days since the enactment pregnant until the baby anapotimiza two years period, it is important because it is in this period the child anakua quickly more and he has a great needs the" virutubishi, he said.
He said the destruction utakaosababishwa and utapiamlo in that period of two years, haurekebishiki throughout the period of his life, therefore made a whole person mdumavu.
He also said that the regional strategies in fighting udumavu ulishaji is to strengthen the infants and small children start kunyonyeshwa earlier milk and the only mother kuanzishiwa shows foods, the right time, while continuing kunyonyeshwa milk of a mother to two years or more.
Nutrition officer, said that another strategy is to ensure virutubishi in food made by wheat flour and maize and oil, salt.


