Shares examinations of Vodacom Dec 08, 2016 of Mnaku Mbani in Information

Previous shares of the company of the services of the Vodacom mobile phone which may will begin sold at the market shareholders of Dar es Salaam (DSE) early next year, will be "" for examinations, Tanzania.

That warning was issued by the investment consultants who believe that may Wa Tanzania wasiweze all buying because of not having enough ukwasi.

The company that is leading in large numbers of customers among the telephone companies in the country, has announced that its 25 percent itauza shares, worth 500 billion shillings.

Business advisers waliozungumza and Good Citizen at the end of last week wamebainisha that the amount of money is collected is expected to extend compared to financial ability of many investors.

In the months of January and February, the state of ukwasi at the stock market usually is not good because many investors, including individuals and the company usually they are dealing with responsibilities with great use of funds including payments of the taxes and fees, claims share to its shareholders.

Big investors in the stock market is a private company, the social security fund, insurance agencies, the banks, together with private people.

It has been revealed that the amount of money kinachopangwa available from sales of those shares will be big than other shares of the past that zimeshawahi sold in the market since it was started in 1998.

Adviser one of the business in the stock market, who did not want to name litajwe has said that in addition to come to remove a big thirst for investors, the ability of the market is still a little, especially to local investors.

DSE right now has 25 companies were listed, where the company is within 18 and those that were listed from foreign markets including Nairobi and seven in London is.
The Acacia company, EABL and TBL are the ones leading with big capital in the market.

For many years, investors of the stock market have been wakilalamika that wanakosa the opportunity to invest their money as a result of lack of enough products (the company).

"Tunajionea that the sale of shares of Vodacom umeangalia thirst for investors but I see the level is very high compared to the ability of investors.
The issue here is the way of Tanzania watakavyochangamkia those shares and exhaust them, said that all "expert

However, because the capital market limekwishafunguliwa ready for investors from outside and inside, there is a big possibility that investors from outside is watakaonufaika and this opportunity.

"You can have a big passion of food, but it can happen when utakapoletewa that meal and UKASHINDWA kukila," said the expert.

Said collecting 500 billion shillings from the sale of shares of Vodacom Tanzania Ltd Plc will be difficult for local investors, especially the period of January.

It is expected that the stock market from the Vodacom will start to be sold in the month of January to March next year and its great goals were putting in Tanzania in the official system of ownership of the economy.

The sale of the shares of Vodacom Tanzania Limited Plc is one of the implementation of the law of the year 2010 and communications Post which inaagiza all mobile phone company to sell their shares to the public by the end of this year.

Another auctioneers of the stock market who also did not want to mention the name has revealed that the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange corporation is still a lot of challenges of lack of products, but the arrival of Vodacom is the exams.

"I don't think 500 billion shillings is our saizi of the stock market.
But let me see "said until the end, in talks with Good Citizen.

That auctioneer believes that Wa Tanzania just a few will get a chance to buy those shares and a large number of shares may ikachukuliwa and investors from outside the country.

"I know investors from outside very wamezipania shares from Vodacom and where many zinaorodheshwa watauza and their money zinaenda outside the country.
Without having any assistance of investors from outside the country, the stock this edition of the past for Vodacom will be the big exam in Tanzania, since that is the only chance to economically empower "said,

The company already imekwishapeleka a draft document of the expectations (Prospectus) and the request at the Capital Markets Authority (CMSA), which is the authority who currently manages the capital markets in the country.


