Who kuibeba CCM Mbeya town next year?
October 11, 2014

In the general election of the year 2010, Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) kilipoteza Mbeya Town constituency in the same environment that that caused the county to fail the NCCR Party, in the general election of many parties in 1995.
Polisya Mwaiseje emerged the winner in the elections of 1995 after kumbwaga CCM candidate, the late Bruno Mpangala, while Joseph Mbilinyi emerge the winner in the general election of the year 2010.
In both elections, those are the members themselves of CCM kukiangusha contributed to their party, as is the results of the groups generated from the candidates, where hugawanyika members while everyone the time he was supervising his candidate.
One of the reasons that zinazotajwa contributing to the anger of the candidates in the party is together with private interests, many candidates benefit from equal, therefore the action of their candidate kutopenya in the opinion polls are usually and why only one, stopping for were eating wakiupata from their candidate.
However, there is another reason, and it is the step of some of the leaders to their people, thus forcing the excluded adoption of the candidates who have power to the electorate, a step that work when huwarahisishia "" injured those wanapohamia on the second side of politics, the opposition.
Different names are mentioned to vie for that region through the party next year, some are together with the author of the Business Times, Charles Mwakipesile, who in recent years has been close to the political party in Mbeya region.
However, Mwakipesile anakwepa to confirm the time to announce that they are still and that now has focused in doing the work of the party.
"Still time, now am the work of the party," says Mwakipesile mentioned when he was asked to talk about him in the list of walioonyesha intention to vie for that region where he is currently one of the main strongholds of CHADEMA in the country.
The party member at three as positions in the party, including a member of the general assembly of the nation - representing the Mbeya province, a member of the executive committee of CCM Mbeya province and a member of the committee political party, here in the province.
Others who acquired is that the chairman of CHADEMA Mbeya rural district and parliamentary candidate twice Mbeya rural constituency, Sambwee Shitambala.
During the elections alizoshiriki alibwangwa candidate and current member of parliament of CCM, Pastor Lackson Mwanjali.
Failure to twice for Shitambala, when CHADEMA ikiaminika that and strength in that region against the CCM and their candidate, kulisababisha division in the party, while some of its leaders and members wakimshutumu openly that alinunuliwa so amwachie CCM candidate.
However Shitambala and he is not ready to put his intention to open a saying it is not the right time to do so, saying; "am, I am announcing MNEC, is the leader of the party, nasimamia" values of the party.
Together with kutothibitisha, a member says that when the right time will people like atagombea or not, but he cannot block the citizens emerging name and yawezekana is because they (the citizens) believe that he can.
Shitambala right now is a member of the executive council of CCM Mbeya Town, as after join it from CHADEMA alikokimbia claiming tired of politics on the basis of the region of the party.
Among the discrimination of openly unaobainishwa and leader is together with the issue of special seats and how his party, the former youth kilivyowatelekeza waliowatumia in popularizing it the party in the district of Mbeya Rural.
Shitambala reveals that alichoshwa and as being affected by the way women in that province walivyofanyiwa, and the behavior of kihuni, violence and kutoaminiana.
"Fetus stays in any group, I analofanana with it for that group," Shitambala reveals the first time to talk in detail kilichomtoa CHADEMA.
Anaizungumziaje the position of his party in the next general elections, especially in Mbeya Town County walilolipoteza after losing and CHADEMA in previous elections.
"Basically CCM are the ones who voted for CHADEMA candidate, I I understand that took place, more than 75 percent of the votes were CCM," Shitambala notes.
Those instructions of Shitambala prove that yaliyokuwepo claims to leaders and members of the party to participate kukihujumu their party as the anger of their candidate to fail in the opinion polls.
His explanation have more strength from the fact that at that time was the leader of CHADEMA and also their candidate for Mbeya rural constituency, it is clear he knows a lot and many anawafahamu kukiangusha who participated in that party in the elections of 2010.


