Barack Obama, Wajaluo and Christianity Jun 28, 2013

Two months ago, nilipatwa and the funeral our village, Kamageta in Rorya District, Mara province.
Nilipokwenda, I am surprised to see the picture of President Barack Obama of America at the wall of my brothers sebule many only.

Our village there is no electricity.
In all day nilizokaa sikuwahi get broadcast television even one day.
But radio nilisikiliza.
And my brothers wanasikiliza radio well.

I, Ezekiel Ochido Peter Ongiri Liech Kamwaga is mjaluo.
Kamageta is ujaluoni.
Although Barack Obama is very far us, Wajaluo is still our brothers and anafuatiliwa closely.

Pictures show ukutani schools were a big one thing; that now Mjaluo leading the whites in America.
This is something for himself to a human being, with the traditional kijaluo.

A question that I would like the readers of this article so as to get the answers though little for today is about these people Wajaluo known which one of them has been the president of the United States, the great nation in the world.

First, ieleweke that Wajaluo are found in approximately 10 countries in Africa.
These countries is Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Republic of Congo, South Sudan, Central African Republic and Sudan.
In an account of mababu, traditional Wajaluo is Diding'a on Dog Nam Nam Dog, the word has a nature of the people of the tribe of Waacholi of Uganda (part of the tribe of Wajaluo) which the meaning is the same as the word Dhonam kijaluo for the Kenya and Tanzania with the meaning of ufukweni the lake.

Until today, Wajaluo from those nations ten approximately hawajakubaliana is lipi lake which linazungumziwa.

Except different researchers say that the lake linafahamika by the name Lake number or to another name Palugo river, though in the Arab nations linafahamika by the name Bahr El Ghazal.

For many years Wajaluo wameishi beside the Nile river ahead of the lake and which for kijaluo linaitwa Nam Lolwe (lake water with yanayokwenda until the end of the world.)
This is the name of the British who came to later kulipachika Lake Victoria.

Wajaluo not tribe which has emerged only recently.
There is evidence until at religious books to show that there were agano since the days of the old.

An example that very unatolewa unatoka in the book of judges chapter 12: 5-6.
That referee when Yepta, Mgileadi, when he was leading the Israel did something big one note Waefraimu before being killed.

After arrest people, aliwaamuru saying the word Shibboleth.
Waisrael normally were able to mention the word Shibbolethi but Waefraimu walishindwa because they were wakitamka Sibolethi.

Why walishindwa Shibbolethi word?
There is a big one reason.
The people of the tribe of Efraimu and Manase are children of Yusufu aliozaa and a woman from the country of Egypt (which also called by the name of the desire).

For biblical learned in, will know anything about strong name.
This is a child of Prophet Nuhu kumchungulia claimed to be her father naked while ulevini.
Instead of kumsitiri, he alimcheka only.

Then Nuhu akamlaani.
It is said that the country of Ham (Egypt), that's when he went to put a shelter that child black.

Now Yusufu akazaa there.
Unfortunately, the children who were born in Ham (Egypt), their language was not the first Kiebrania Jews.
That is why they wakashindwa word word Shi and instead were wanatamka it is not.

That have to speak to the people of the tribe like Wajaluo, Waacholi, Wakaramoja and Washiluk, watabaini that they don't have the word shillings.. in their words.
Waseme Ukiwaambia shirt themselves say sati.

There are people usually wanataniana that "mAh black" as mjaluo.
That is obey Wajaluo black.
But this is not a matter of shame for mjaluo.
Basically, in religious books, among the women more beauties in the history of this tribe, Astarte, anajisifu by King Solomon in the book of Mithali; "and is Beautiful and black".

Primarily black, is something to be proud of in the ujaluo.
Names like Ochol and Rateng have black; one meaning in Swahili.
The names like Oteng (Jorateng) clan explains that God Jok (Wajaluo were wanamwamini before the religious white all Arab and hazijaingia), aliuumba using special black soil athletes do not on the side of the river, Kiir (Kiir is the name of the Nile river kijaluo.
Kiir is also the name of the second president of South Sudan, Salva Kiir).


