
Korea ilivyogeuza China the market for its culture Mar 21, 2014

Last week, my friends of visiting Kikorea walinishawishi them part of the city of Shanghai, called Korea Town in the district of Shanghai, Gubei here.
This area limepawa the name of Korea Town because a big percentage of Wakorea present here in Shanghai, live this section, and so on, there are a lot of business Kikorea.
In the streets zungukazunguka in Koreatown, nilishangazwa and a large number of Chinese who came out for the purpose of getting different luxury including food, drinks and various attractions the culture of Kikorea.

Jumuisho nilichoona is that the culture of South Korea sells China.
The long queues at the restaurants, food and big shops upaparikaji obvious of the Chinese to taking a picture on the side of the statue of the famous artists Kikorea is an enough evidence.

Niliporudi home I got shocked as the desire to know more about the cultural matters of this influence in South Korea.

Nilioufanya small research showed that, not only China, the Asian continent in recent years the whole limetikiswa waves of the work of art and culture from Korea: Am talking about the games of the drama television (known as K-dramas), films, music (known as K-Pop) food, clothing and fashion.

Visit the Asian countries from China to Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Japan, India to Turkey.
Likewise, South Asian countries including Malaysia, Indonesia, Ufilipino, Singapore, Cambodia, Thailand - washa television or radio and are sure that you will meet the theater and television and the music Kikorea.

This is the games to act that is also popular in other sections inayovipa the culture of Kikorea to an extent that now has been made eating food Kikorea which the famous actors who appear to officers, to wear as plays in their hair, to follow the fashion and cosmetics.

I have been told in Thailand, in their city, the Bangkong shops yamejaa products and services of beauty where in wadada would wanaahidiwa kupendezeshwa for the swaga Kikorea.

The effects spread in computer games.
Hayohayo success is the cultural matters and the art is the yanachochea fast the desire to tourists visiting the country.
I have heard even learn Kikorea has also been made now.
During the language of Mandarin (Chinese) kinaenea and spread because of economic and business, Kikorea independent kinatakata by cultural matters and art.
Is like at home the youth wanapojifunza English so as to go hand in hand with the movements of Europe.

The wave of spread and the growth of the influence of art and culture of Kikorea halikuanza recently.
In the year 2001 press of the China vilishabatiza wave that for kuliiita "Hallyu" (or Hallyu-wood).


