
Wanazuoni waunga support two mihula

It has been written by Shadrack Sagati

Imechapishwa: 08 December 2016

Some of the issues of education, wanazuoni wameunga support the government's move to all schools that provide mihula elimumsingi, following two studies zinawafanya explanation that students get time to rest, but also are opportunities for the government to implement its plan academically.

Speaking yesterday and this newspaper, those wanazuoni said there are issues that are being done by the government even to private schools and to give an example the games of primary and secondary schools together with the trial examinations moko and that the national examinations.
Professor Justin Galabawa of the University of Dar es Salaam said the operators of the school in the country, must agree on the and the education system of two mihula which it gives the student opportunity breathing.
He said a student akikaa a long time in school like that of three mihula, his productivity in the success of poor becomes exams.
"Is well having two mihula, this inawapa opportunities breath students at home in the middle of the term and even wanaporudi in school are and Mori of learning more" expert, said that the educational issues.
He said the education system in the world, any ufuate must meet the requirements of the government so as to provide opportunities if there are activities that are implemented by the government between those schools zisiweze affected.
"For example, there was a time when there is the games Umitashumita and Umiseta, this is the competition involving all government schools and the government, how come as taking place during zimefungwa other schools and others are continuing with studies?
"He asked.
He said the decision of the government of wanting to all schools can have two mihula is beneficial, because even when the government inapoahirisha something, as doing mock exams kutahusu all schools to have all that are in one system.
"I advise my fellow owners of the school to follow this procedure is beneficial, wasiitunishie msuli the government, these are the leading in the system of education in the country," said Professor Galabawa who also anamiliki Secondary School Machlina the Thomas More located in Dar es Salaam.
And Professor of Engineering, construction of the University of Dar es Salaam, Aloyce Mayo, who is also the director of the secondary Alpha, he said the system of two mihula who has been set by the government is beneficial to all schools that provide elimumsingi.
Professor Mayo said that two mihula which center has a short break and to akahoji, "Sijajua why some owners wanang'ang'ania three mihula, I don't see if it has a very productive and two different this".
He said he is one of the leaders of private schools and through their union Feva, problem of the school having two mihula.
He added that problem limekuwepo more for the owners of private schools that are the foundation of the three mihula.
"Maybe have their primary reasons, but to me two mihula which has mid term (short break) is very good for the operations of the school," explained Professor Mayo.
Are being reported and tension between the government and some of the owners of private schools mihula about the studies.
The government has given a document number one of the year 2015 which unaelekeza that all schools must be and two mihula together and short break for every mhula.
But private schools have been zinataka zenyewe mihula three should be on claims that it gives an opportunity for the children to be home during the rain and cold and also inarahisishia parents and guardians in matters of paying the fee.


