
The drivers that increase the fare this festive season wadhibitiwe

It has been written by Lucy Ngowi

Imechapishwa: 07 December 2016

December every year is in which many families are uniting, because many workers hupenda to take the holiday and school hufunga students for the long holiday.

Due to that reason, many families hupenda traveling to different areas for the purpose of changing the environment.
Former the host, and the culture that were by this month, it is a must that they go to them for the purpose of celebrating Christmas and the new year.
But, in the recent years, this situation imesambaa in all provinces of Tanzania, where the family may celebrating the holiday and parents or their brothers in the villages.
Due to this culture, uliojengeka for many families in the country for the month of December, the owners of the transit buses in the provinces, have been see it is the only area that the gathering quickly very for increasing fares for buses.
Those fares hupanda every year since on the 15th of this month, from people to travel in large numbers.
That period those owners of hupandisha bus fare every day, depending on the number of people continues to increase.
With huita buses that season because of grace or of yields hutoza because a fare because wanaelewa must will get passengers.
Those fares in fact, has been a great pain for many passengers, especially those low-income.
For example, last year, the fare to Kilimanjaro or Arusha shillings was between 20,000 and 30,000 shillings, but inapofikia period, "yields" hupanda up to 50,000 to 70,000 shillings.
For those passengers this month of December, I will agree about those fare, nilivyoeleza because if above for now has become a tradition for people of all provinces to go to celebrate in walikozaliwa.
A good example is in the main stand of the buses in the provinces of Ubungo in Dar es Salaam, where in the period starting from December 15 until 24, many times, that is usually yameshajaa bus passengers are wameshakata tickets early.
But also there was a dirty game to some of the interim people agents of buses.
They have been buying those tickets early for the purpose of selling them at a high price.
And this period passengers are many in the bus station because of wanakoelekea wanakosa to go there.
This matter we have been tukilishuhudia for all the years, although three years ago, the authority Surface and Marine Transport Authority (SUMATRA), imelivalia address kuwatoza fined for all that increase the prices, a step that little but there.
I am saying SUMATRA little but there because wanapokagua books for the bus fares that, usually vinaonesha vimeuzwa for the price of the usual, but many citizens are complaining kuuziwa and agents those fare at a high price.
My request for SUMATRA is to ensure inadhibiti this situation isitokee this year.
Itumie all means to citizens in a few clever wanaoumiza kuwalangua ticket in this festive season, who wanauita harvest season.
To stop this situation is good for passengers when they should give information early meet and there, although others feel it is to be equal wameshajiandaa to travel and have the capacity to pay any fare.
I am sure if citizens watashirikiana well and government organs, there will be no unplanned increase the fare in this season of Christmas and the new year.


