
Security uimarishwe fighting 'road' it

It has been written by Shadrack Sagati

Imechapishwa: 12th October, 2016

Many areas of the city of Dar es Salaam, for now, it is not safe to live again.
Not safe because of criminal acts done by different groups of kiuhalifu grow in a big way.
Weekend it lasts without to hear cases of robbery in the areas of Dar es Salaam.

Those acts vimefanya people living with more concern because there is no an incident that police wamejaribu kulizima or even kulizuia before happened.
Apart from that robbery using firearms, but there are also groups it yanayojiita Mbwa Road, wild and Black Americans and so many others have been a big threat to the residents of Dar es Salaam as a result of doing acts of crime without even having any fear against organs.
Since May this year, these groups yanayotumia crude weapons like mashoka marungu and knives, swords, have a big threat in some regions of the periphery of Dar es Salaam and despite to conduct looting, also have been yanawashambulia wanaovamiwa people for swords and knives.
For example the incident of the day before yesterday in Mbagala it was reported that one of those groups yalimjeruhi one of the army officer of (JWTZ), Jerald Malilo who got serious head injuries and was admitted to hospital in the Army.
Malilo had injuries during akiwahi at work during morning hours, despite the country but also many citizens wamekabwa and that group that itself limegundua one way to get the income is kuwakaba people who wanawahi at work early in the morning.
The other day in those groups also Kivule as yalivamia settlements and killed two people and to conduct looting.
Such events police manage wanafika those areas have already people wameshauawa or injured badly and looting been done.
But there are other groups itself yanaendesha looting at evening in different areas.
Yanavamia even in these bars have only so that they can be anything to believe that people who go to the bars are the ones who are and money.
There are also other groups need their crime at night, many wanakujisanya their wanavamia settlements.
Wanapovamia those settlements may with the intention of getting the amount of money, mobile phones, television and non-vichogo and using laptops.
These groups of youths yameshamiri because yanapofanya looting or invading people's homes at night, people's behavior of Dar es Salaam donating the fear that these groups do have contributed to and pride.
But also lack of defense, including that of the community police in many areas with yamehamasisha those youths doing their crime for more freedom.
Many areas of the city of Dar es Salaam has no police stations and for example the residents of Kivule service they allege that the police station is available Stakishari which is in the apart from that area.
My advice is that the area as Kitunda Ward, which has more than two Kitunda Ward, that is, Kivule Msongola Kipunguni, and it is good to be police and the security of the 24 hours than it is now, the police station kinafungwa Kitunda 12 o'clock in the evening.
This is dangerous and it gives an opportunity for these groups to do their crime for more freedom.
Even other areas outside of the city as it has no Mbweni ikitegemea police station the idea, something which is very dangerous.
In the previous years in helping the community police were seen to strengthen security.
IGP who was at that time, Said Mwema scarce for recognizing the police seemed to afford the area and crime in a big way reduced.
But leave for IGP Mwema is if left and security.
I advise that control these groups of crime is there must be a strong security.
Ihamasishe police security in our streets so as to get the people to be able to cooperate with the police in the security of citizens.


