Fidel Castro: He was David or Goliathi?
Dec 06, 2016

Alipozikwa grave Fidel Castro

During the year, 1959, Fidel Castro leaving in Santiago de Cuba for long convoy of cars heading to Havana.
Nearly 60 years later, his remains yamebebwa through that way, to return to the past.

Hiba which will continue to remain the leader is like that of David and Goliati of biblical in.
He was a young man, mwanamapinduzi with many Ndevu from a small island who alipambana with the size of the ubepari and the power of the United States.

That is an issue of ndotoni.
But not the dream of every person.
And, in fact,, not everyone can accepting that Fidel was David or Goliathi.

Pictures of the rule of Castro that if David started to be seen during the invasion of Cubans who live outside the country and America wakifadhiliwa 1961 kilichokuja in what was known as the Bay of Pigs.
This picture it seemed again and again when Fidel when he was throwing stones and words against his neighbor, a nation of America while akiungwa support and his close ally, Russia and later Venezuela.

And is the picture that some of the Cubans - those who followers were attracted by the attraction together with his ability to speak whole showing that suffer for now, it is important to get a better life like the kianzio later - waliyaamini, at least for the time.
Was the more for those who benefited from the development of the revolution and who lived in Cuba in the development of civilians.

Cubans waliopigana against dictatorship Fulgencia Batista in the years of 1950 and walihatarisha their lives in the war, continued to defend the revolution.
Waliishi in happy during the dikteta alipoangushwa and continued Fidel follow.

For many those waliofaidika from the expansion of education and public health services, Castro continued to be a respected person.
And this development cannot kusahaulika, because they are the fruit itself where Cubans were doing every day.

Many Cubans who were they do not know to read or write previously were able to learn to read in the campaign that took place after the revolution.
Cubans more poverty in rural areas, and those who were and the history of working in cities, their status ilipanda suddenly due to now to learn how to read.

But for many Cubans, the David aligeuka and that the former Goliathi with frightening chapter.
When Castro akipeleka accusations of economic problems of his country, working for the United States instead of those problems by using his policies mwenewe, some of the Cubans in the country they leave and go to look for a new life in America.
Among its policies zilizoshindwa is that the attempt Castro urged all citizens of his country to the sugarcane farms and start booking.
All he wanted, including doctors and farmers without worrying about the work of someone to go to the villages, cutting the sugarcane harvest with the aim of reaching the 10 million tons of sugarcane, and at the same time insisting that the honor Cuba was in danger.
The issue lilishindikana achieve his goal, leaving Cubans while have gotten tired and kufedheheka.

It is clear for many people who live Cuba today in America - and many others who wamesambaa in various parts of the world, especially in Spain, South America, and Canada - Fidel was not David.
But this was also open for many Cubans who were in that country and start a movement to who were under under wakihatarisha their lives every day in secret struggle to try to restore democracy in Cuba, even under the oppression of the government.

Vuguvugu was among the youth in the middle of the 1980s, including those who went to study in Russia and other countries in the East European, after seeing the ukomunisti closely and their attempts at glasnost and perestroika to making changes to the ukoministi by starting inside.

Today, that involve vuguvugu groups like Movimiento Cristiano Liberacion and that the more linalofahamika Damas de Blanco, mothers who every Sunday walking on the streets of Havana, wearing white clothes, and carry or, praying released by their husbands, children, or their brother, who was scored kutordhishwa due to the presence of one party, the community of kiimla, and the Patriotic Union of Cuba.


