Simba "yalia" and the referee

It has been written by Vicky Kimaro

Imechapishwa: 03 October 2016

The leadership of Simba Club today is expected to officially submit his complaints to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and the league board (TLB) to imchukulie referee step of their match against Yanga, Martin Saanya.
Simba and Yanga met at the National Stadium at the end of the week and from a draw of 1-1 in the match iliyojaa violence.

The chaos zilitokana and the leading goal scored by the Yanga Amisi Tambwe which lililalamikiwa because before hajafunga, the player took the ball something lililozua violence to the fans of Simba because early Ibrahim Ajibu Simba for lililokataliwa and the referee for the claims was ameotea.
Apart from those fans who went to the stadium seats'oa kuvirusha on the field.
"From huge sadness Simba club imesikitishwa so much and vilivyofanywa actions and some of our fans the breaking the part of the chairs at the National Stadium, the action what happened yesterday (the day before yesterday) in our game of the Premier League against Yanga team..." we, we believe evil actions vilivyofanywa and our fans vilisababishwa and the decision of an illegally uliosababishwa and those especially Martin Saanya, "said Manara.
"Is not is what criteria used goal referee kulikubali 'netball'la Yanga striker, Amisi Tambwe kulikataa and legitimate goal of Ibrahim Ajibu our striker.
In that game violence zilizozuka and causing a big coercion extra bomb using kutuliza the chaos that some people waliumia badly.
Furthermore Manara asked to apologize for their fans who'oa chairs and saying watawasiliana and the relevant authorities so that owe.
"We apologize for this issue and the club has agreed to pay the cost of this destruction.
Itazungumza club and the owners of this stadium inalipaje to see those costs, mi our hopes to see this issue "halitajitokeza again.
"However, tumeshangazwa and the action of our captain gave a red card to Jonas Mkude, this condition as the captain followed kumlalamikia to his act of accepting the goal '' joined the Tambwe and all of us we have seen Saanya alijikwaa during anarudi falling behind, then growing and to give a red card for the Mkude..." we believe this time TFF and the League Board will give an stern punishment for these referees to be a lesson to the superficial decision of this kind.
"Club also italalamika the action of our rooms of a chemical spray clothes it that the intention to do our players before the match started, tunaziomba also authority thorough investigation to identify the kinachosadikiwa this action that is not noble undertaken by our opponents.
"Know their intention is to make our players get tired, but our team physicians of making correct step took our players that they finish ninety minutes of the game for the ability and great expertise," said.
That is the second match referee Saanya kulalamikiwa for the goal of the type which last season in the FA match between Yanga and Coast Union that took place at the Mkwakwani Tanga Stadium and Yanga won 2-1, in the game ulivunjika after a big violence broke out.
In that game, Saanya was forced to break the game after Yanga's keeper Deogratius Munish (Dida), being attacked by fans while the Coast defender Oscar Joshua akipigwa and bottles on the head.
In that game Tambwe came to take the position of Donald Ngoma aliifungua Yanga the second goal in the style of Simba goal of the day before yesterday and Coast complaining about that goal is that the support.


