
Employee is supposed to avoid dangerous environment at work we have seen many times some of the workers wakitekeleza their responsibilities, in difficult environments that are a danger.
Therefore, employee hutekeleza its responsibilities in an environment yanayomuua procedures while others while they do not know that their environment they affect their health.
Together with that many workers wanaposikia certain person, who was working in the industry or the company has died there is no even one of the staff anayechukua kudadisi action on the source of the death.
Employee mwajiriwa or whether the task is his rights to know about some even of chemicals that are at the industry, which huuwa for causing various effects cancer example.
Many workers wanazeeka and died before their age, by thinking that claimed the rights sinful and by thinking of that the value of their dignity is under because of poverty or because of the lack of education.
Some of the employers wanajiamini others have the right to lower the value of its workers, so that they can get financial welfare.
Several employees in the country have lost links or their lives, matahalani because of smoking dust migodini miners were part of the work.
These effects not only to workers, but even the residents who hold the mines.
There is a huge number of employees who today they are working in difficult environments yanayotisha.
Many people wanatumikishwa by their employers in the environment that yamezungukwa and poisonous without caring, just because they want to get a big profit.
Today time in some of the industries and even some of the people in the country, you will discover mabohari wanavyolishwa poison or kujilisha poisonous to believe that they have a very big or small value than other human beings.
This is known a lot of people that they work in an environment of that kind, just because of wanting money and believe that wataishi hard life and their families wakiacha work.
Some of the industries often huwaweka employees in defense and dangerous environment, like the equipment to prevent polluted special clothing, shoes, the work or a cap when it when there is a leader anatembelea industry.
Leaving told employees wavue and continue with work, as is their custom.
Employee anayekubali these circumstances is that, still hajajitambua and or hafahamu his rights.
The workers remember that those environments yanawaua slowly and often usually mnajidanganya because hamuoni wenzenu wakianguka and died suddenly there at work.
But certain wanaposikia, who was working there at work, and he died hawahangaiki or to ask about the death of their fellow employee kimesababishwa and what.
Mnatakiwa workers to know that chemicals, dust and so many others industries huua by giving someone yanayoenda disease slowly.
It is very important for workers to know this issue that in this world where people are kumezwa and up and more concern, to know their rights.
Wonder many of them are small wanalipwa salaries that even does not meet their needs.
Therefore haitatokea even immediately, some of the employers wakasimamia the safety of their employees at a high level at all, because by doing so kutafanya to use extra costs, therefore, reducing the profit.
Is about the employee himself asking about his safety at work.
If there is a sign of a small security, it is good for the employee akajaribu to look at ways of commitment and to look for other activities.
There is a difficulty in getting employment or to change the activities, but if tahadhali many workers believe that their children and others wanaowategemea wataathirika life.
The citizens are waiting for the compensation fund (WCF) that was started according to section 5 of the law of the Workers Compensation number.
20 percent of the year 2008, to deal with the issues of compensation to workers present in the private and public sector in Tanzania Mainland who wataumia, suffering from or died due to work.
WCF officially started work on July 1, 2015.
The main aim of launching the Workers Compensation Fund is to deal with the issues of compensation to workers present in the private and public sector in Tanzania Mainland who wataumia, suffering from or to die at work.
According to the second section of the law of Workers Compensation 20 committees of the year 2008, the perpetrators of is employers of the public and private sectors in the country.
Christian Gaya is the founder of the Tanzania and HakiPensheni adviser of the pension issues. (Gayagmc @ yahoo.com or 0655131341)


