
SADC to beat drug dealers Aug 08, 2013

The fight against the professionals of the business of drug trafficking in the country is expected to take a new turn after the Community Economic Development in Southern Africa (SADC), to prepare to fight and the business by using the power of kidola.
Information that had been issued on Monday this week by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Tanzania, Bernard Membe, when he was speaking in a period of the General television on Monda, run by veteran journalist, General Ulimwengu, every Monday in the Channel Ten television station.
Which SADC countries apart from Tanzania is together with South Africa, Zimbabwe, Angola, Botswana, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Swaziland, Zambia and Seyshelles.
Madagascar imesitishwa for a membership of that union.
Is in some of those countries ambamo some of Tanzania wamekatwa with drugs and a recently is arrested for the popular artist Agnes Masogange Mellis and Edward, who were arrested in South Africa at the International Airport of Oliver cheering and drugs alleging that and the value of more than six billion shillings.
Speaking about that issue more, Minister Membe said the fight against drugs is big and removed call for people with the goals of wanting to vie for the presidency in the year 2015 to do the fight against drugs that is between their agenda, by considering that the use of those drugs is destruction to the youth.
Membe who was the leader of the team of the SADC in the general election of Zimbambwe recently, spoke about the conduct of the election saying the report the draft of the whole trend itawasilisha in coming session of the heads of the community in Malawi.
In the election of Zimbabwe, the ruling party ZANU-PF of President Robert Mugabe (89) which kiliendesha fight campaigns uzawa and land in the direction to the visitors, especially the whites who were wanamiliki a huge portion of land in that country, kilifanikiwa get mzungu member, Joshua Sacco.
Sacco has won parliamentary Chimanimani County East and amazing yanayofuatilia nations of that country.
Mugabe has been akitania that Joshua is the last white person kuwmao Zanu- PF.
The year 2009 Joshua he was chosen to be the deputy secretary in production in ZANU PF the side of youth and was the first white person holding that position Zimbabwe.
Kilichoshangaza many is to see that mzungu in the primaries to get the consent of ZANU-PF kumbo on to vie for a parliamentary seat, the former member of the party and the deputy minister Economy, planning and investment Zimbabwe, Samuel Undenge.


