
TRA 1 trillion collect 1.37 / = in the month of September

It has been written by Mroki Mroki

Imechapishwa: 5 October 2016

Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has collected 1 trillion shillings 1.37 in the month of September this year and to make zilizokusanywa money in a period of three months of the new financial year 2016 / 2017 reach 3.59 trillion shillings.

Speaking with journalists in Dar es Salaam, the director of Taxpayer Services and Education, Richard Kayombo said the aim was scheduled to the collection in the month of September had 1.4 trillion shillings.
Kayombo said in this financial year TRA has set the goals of 15.1 trillion shillings to collect taxes from various its sources to achieve the goals of the government in serving the citizens.
"Agpsti month tulifamikiwa collecting the amount of 1 trillion shillings 1.13 therefore mtaweza to see how tumevuka collections of the past two months of July and August to reach 1.37 trillion shillings," said Kayombo.
He said the collection of government revenue goes hand in hand with educating citizens about their duty to pay the correct tax and on time.
Operators of goods to go to the provinces and wanahimizwa claiming a receipt of EFDs products and as soon as they have during wanasafirisha goods in order to avoid trouble when wanapohitajika showing the receipt.
In another step, that authority urged waagizaji of goods outside the country by using the system of customs TANCIS every time to follow up on the reports of the unloading of their products in order to avoid any kind of cheating.
Kayombo said that anapotumia businessman system of TANCIS can monitor his cargo easily and know all the steps his cargo ulipofikia as payment of taxes and everything to reach.
"For those who import vehicles are advised to obtain information about the taxes wanayostahili pay before hayajafika vehicles in order to avoid complaints of any kind when their expectations," said Kayombo.
About the verification of the taxpayer number (TIN) ready imehakiki and providing new certificates of TIN 15,467 since the start of the work in the month of August this year.
Losers "with nine days to end the verification exercise and the improvement of the reports of the numbers of the taxpayer identification (TIN) in the rent of Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar, already the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), imehakiki and providing new certificates of TIN 15,467," said Kayombo.
The exercise of ukakiki and the improvement of the reports of TIN continues until October 15, this year, at the offices of the authority and requested the citizens with TIN to come out and to verify before haujaisha established time because after that time frame TIN haijahakikiwa which will be it will be removed in the system of TIN of TRA.


