UVCCM "war" again "and Lowassa

December 19, 2016

The Union of Youth of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (UVCCM) have said it is a shame is also a shame for the leaders that have ever given bail and the government to lead the arena of administration and failing, kulaumu start to their colleagues that the accusations and the foundation.
Also, the Union umeelezea expressed his concern and claims that were made recently by the former prime minister, Edward Lowasa, urging the President John Magufuli, him leave the plan of buying an airplane instead asambaze water.
The acting secretary general of UVCCM, Shaka Hamdu Shaka, made the statement in this province yesterday when he visited the project water distribution and inspect new wells of water that are used to clean and safe water supply in villages Kiniha ward Biharamulo district in the province.
Said it is surprising issue listen to the leader and a politician especially Lowassa who served as the minister bond of Water and Livestock later that the prime minister, he was unable to solve the water problem until alipojiuzulu in the saga of Richmond.
Doubt said it's not good for someone while the opposition ashutumu even good things that are being done by the government.
"Lowassa anashutumu and kulaumu only because aonekane anampinga President Doctor.
Magufuli, someone you want to provide kibanzi in the eye mwenzako, first boriti jichoni produce knowledge, he should remember he was the responsible minister of water, but also failed "Alisisitiza Shaka.
Acting secretary general of UVCCM urged the government officials and the District Council to promote their cooperation and to recognize that they have a bond of serving the citizens and solve the problems that they face.
He urged leaders of the government in the relevant level understand that there is no need to listen to the accusations or blame provided by the opposition because their work is saying every day and the work of the government is doing and to illustrate.
"Ninafurahi to see the leaders in the office of the DC mkifanya work together with in partnership with the District Council, we know in the efforts to build a strong one house, therefore, there is no need of kunyang'anyana fito, simameni stable mnafanikisha to ensure the implementation of the manifesto of CCM of 2015-2020 President amewaamini onesheni your ability with actions," said Shaka.
Previously Shaka participated in the construction and inspected the progress of the project for the construction of houses for teachers and a health center that was started in Primary School Kaniha Biharamulo district.
Doubt alifuatana and head of Biharamulo district, Saada Malunde, watching the project.
That head of the district, said that the government is doing everything possible to make it to make sure the water experts looking for areas with water wells vichimbwe ardhni so that enough and get people to clean and safe water.
DC Saada Malunde, said there are four wells that between 12 vimeharibika and that they have ordered there be new vipuri thus just vitakapowasili production and distribution water will be guaranteed in the ward.
"We have 12 wells in the ward four Kaniha where between therefore vimeharibika, we're in the great efforts to ensure that problem linamalizika quickly," said DC Malunde.


