
Tukijipanga we can improve our towns yesterday we published news about the plan of Kinondoni Municipality in Dar es Salaam, demolishing and then kuyajenga haphazard residential areas in the shape of modern.
Talking to the Citizen in a special interview, the mayor of the municipality, Benjamin Sitta said the program is expected to start in 2018, is part of the strategies of the development of the municipality.
To start, said they have kukifumua popular neighborhood the Tandale and build the modern system in a special.
This is the step to that are located in Kinondoni, is a sign of the situation is in many parts of the country.
Basically, in many parts of the country are hobelahobela and this is the results of cities kutopanga earlier or the absence effective management in areas that at least yalikumbukwa for the presence of urban planning.
The effects of having a towns careless built tunayaona.
For example, areas where the map of urban planning show yametengwa or for the purpose of sports fields or a vacation, the expansion of the schools or hospitals or government buildings, we have witnessed yakivamiwa and other live with houses for the purpose of business activities.
Also, we have witnessed the rich wakipora and build houses in the reserve areas of roads and maybe about the water pipes and fuel.
The worst, there are some who for the tyranny of money wamethubutu even sealing inayopitisha dirty water canals and therefore causing a big problem for residents because others sewerage careless husambaa especially at the rain.
Tunaipongeza Kinondoni Municipality in this mka between unaopaswa be followed and various other parts of the country.
However, tunaitaka ensures that this plan, it becomes sustainable and sufficiently ijipange kuutekeleza for his ability.
Tunasema thus especially considering that our country imejijengea fees go years and of having many plans, but only a few ikitekelezwa and gets done right in many mashubaka at the offices of the directors.
We have a good example of developing the garden that is near the offices of the Kinondoni District.
Since itangazwe that the area litaboreshwa and have a unique attraction several years ago, up to now, there is no what is going on.
Outside the Kinondoni, there are many examples of the strategies to develop the cities, but until now is not ilipokwamia.
A good example is the towns modern Luguruni Kigamboni and.
We do not trust as Mayor Sitta wants to building the popularity, it should be remembered that this is a great project and if you will succeed utaiweka Kinondoni, in the form of its kind in the country, thus it is a must ijipange municipality because his process utahitaji many resources.
Is planning to choose, as tumechagua improving our towns, we must be and concrete plans and true, while tukijipanga for our internal resources.
Hatutofika anywhere if every day tuatakuwa tunabuni plans and strategies while tukitegemea to a large extent a donation of resources especially money from sponsors donor or the outside.
Together with that, tunasema the plan of Kinondoni Municipality, sending should other areas in the country.
Of Tanzania they want to see the best towns and modern, it's not the only Kinondoni, but in every corner of the country.
Tukijipanga well, the modern our areas, will be built zimefikia end.


