
Simba WAJUTA dismiss Kibadeni... is best top white Kocha than hundred soon

Dar es Salaam.
Simba's head coach, Zdavko Logarusic "Loga" has 10 matches of the premier league while has collected 12 points but amezidiwa and Abdalah Kibadeni, who aliinoa and the team in the first round since alikusanya 20 points in the number of matches.

Simba as under the Loga already has lost the opportunity to vie for the top three positions after losing last Sunday and Azam 2-1 at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam, therefore stay in the fourth position with 36 points.

Azam is leading the league with 53 points, followed by Yanga (46) and Mbeya City has seized the third position and 45 points wakiiacha Simba by a difference of nine points during zimebakiza three games.

Loga being given the responsibility of training Simba, December last year after the leadership of the club sack Kibadeni and his assistant Jamhuri Kihwelo claiming dissatisfaction with the results of their team.

That time Simba was holding the fourth position with 24 points.

Kibadeni alidumu in that club for a period not exceeding six months and lead to win five matches, coming from five draws in 10 games before being and Azam.

Mcroatia aliyeanza overwhelmingly that his hired by leading Simba won 3-1 against Yanga in the friendly match 'Nani Mtani Jembe, "was unable to transfer that success in the league.

Since January 26, the year hu, Loga ameiongoza Simba won only three matches, coming from three draws and lost four matches against Mgambo Shooting (1-0), Coastal Union SC (1-0), JKT Ruvu (2-3) and Azam FC 2-1.
Logarusic said: "I am surprised us but we are playing tunafungwa, I think that is not keen, we are playing for thinking passport and Mashuti," complained that coach of former Gor Mahia of Kenya.

And the captain of Simba, Nassor Masoud "Cholo" said they got bad results in this period is a lesson to them and now wajipange for next season.

Cholo said: "Tulichokipata, kinatukumbusha that, in the world there is a rise and drop, we do not only tukubaliane tumeshateleza way, and these results".


