Mbowe, Lipumba, came under fire again Mbatia Jul 24, 2014

In itakayowatikisa step of the opposition camp, several members of the race Wamo deserted it, Good Citizen limeambiwa.
The members of their parties are expected to relocate the now and to join the new party of the opposition any time from the end of the Constitutional Assembly (SCA), the report states.
Many of those members come from the lake zone, North East, West and Lake and this newspaper limeambiwa that already decisions yamekwishakufanyika, kinachobaki now is the event.
Wanachotajwa moving to the members of the party is the Alliance for Change and Transparency (ACT) kinachohusishwa and member of parliament for Kigoma North (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe.
Zitto himself hajahamia in the party but one of his maswahiba political, Samson Mwigamba, already has joined ACT and have already started doing a tour of politics in some regions.
This newspaper has been given the names already some of the members of parliament who watahama from their parties in the special reasons but for now, these names hayatatajwa for now.
One of the members of parliament who are expected to move to ACT has spoken with this newspaper at the end of last week and has confirmed that atahama after the end of his term of parliament; that is, after officially broken by this parliament next year.
"I naondoka.
If our country inaruhusiwa politician could be given-Cross (moving to another party) without losing his parliamentary seat, I were nimehama already.
But I cannot leave that for now.
"Nikihama, first nitakosa the opportunity to participate in the process of making the new constitution Tanzania and also to contribute to the national issues through the parliamentary debates.
"Then there is the issue of income also.
ACT is the new party and it does not have any source of income.
As a member of parliament nitaendelea get my salary and also contribute to my party.
Unfortunately remain and parliamentary, first "said the member of parliament.
Which parties vinataraji lost its members of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) and NCCR-Evolution, while ikidaiwa that the Civic United Front (CUF) can only lose some of its members of the Tanzanian mainland with influence the strength of the provinces.
A citizen Mwema limeambiwa that the step of some of the leaders of CHADEMA in some of the provinces to announce the party itself at the moment, is part of the plan that had been planned well of people leaving step by step.
One of the leaders walioachia the level is the former chairman of CHADEMA Kigoma province, Jaffar Kasisiko, the former chairman of CHADEMA Affairs Shabaani western region, and the secretary of the CHADEMA Kigoma province, Msafiri Wamalwa.
Speaking with journalists in Dar es Salaam at the end of last week, the chairman of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe, said that they have rumors that there are other leaders of the party who they are preparing to leave.
However, this newspaper it is aware that the picture of what members wataondoka in opposition parties more will be known after the Constitutional Assembly where there are some who will start showing obvious that their intention.
"ACT have a big secret and it will be open from after the SCA.
After that, there will be four isiyozidi meetings before the parliament broken.
Subiri first liishe SCA, "said another member who has been named to move but whoever does not want to be involved at all and ACT in the current stage.
", brother nakuomba usitaje very much my name or using my picture in your newspaper.
You do so will be umenimaliza completely.
First am surprised how these things yamevujaje.
I know..... just (name linahifadhiwa) is amekuambia, "said the member of parliament for now.
But many of the members of parliament and politicians who are expected to move to ACT they have been mentioned that the youth seeing that their lives the political party will be easy than in the parties which vimejijenga ready.
During the parliamentarian speaking to Good Citizen anayejihusisha one young man, he had a very political and in universities, who told the author of this newspaper that to ACT only because "cannot kudandia in lililojaa then" -akimaanisha other parties the political universities in the country.
The efforts of this newspaper wanting to talk and Mwigamba so as to get truly reliable members of parliament, they are expecting to get delayed after the politician who was once the leader of CHADEMA said hafahamu anything.
"Me, the truth is that I have heard the news just like you but I don't know anything.
We we build a skilled the party and if there are people who believe in doing, tunachotaka tutawakaribisha only.
But there is no anything until now, "said that politician.
Zitto could not be found to give his opinion on because it is outside the country for its activities parliamentary.


