
Makonda: Police officers land kamateni walioghushi documents

It has been written by Sophia Mwambe

Imechapishwa: 29th November 2016

Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Paul Makonda has ordered the army police, special region of Dar es Salaam, the arrest of all land officers who participated in the forgery of land, including to change the judgment and directives of the court.

Moreover, he has instructed the land officer of the province, Edger Msolla, presenting the names of those officers and the police commissioner in Dar es Salaam, Simon Sirro, so that action can be taken against them.
Also wants the institution of dealing with combating corruption (PCCB) given the company Nakoroa Investment Limited, in order to check its legality he was as a result of getting involved in land conflicts and it will be noted is concerned about, it is abolished..
Makonda gave the directive in his last meeting in 10-day tour in the province, which took place at the Mabwepande, Kinondoni District.
Makonda he came to the decision after a resident of Mlalakua, Joyce Machange explained that alibomolewa four houses for his late father who was being on the charge 200,000 shillings.
The resident claimed those houses zilibomolewa 35 days after his father died and the company complainant Nakoroa Investment Limited.
He said, the order of the court of the land directions lilimtaka Machange paying the cost in order to prevent the house sold.
He added that after the incident presented the issue at the office of the head of the province, and Makonda handed over wamsikilize land in order for officers.
Msolla said, on the side of the complainant, the company Nakoroa Investment alipowasilisha their documents, they discovered the auctioneers was appointed to the court changed some of the court and an alighushi also signed.
Msolla alimtaja land Licensing Agency officer Kinondoni, Artinius Rugemalila that she was involved in the licensing change the shelter without being satisfied with the respondent arrived mkutanoni, was arrested by the police.


