Wanachafua rich environment, they are being affected poor APR 23, 2014

NILIPOWASILI here abroad at the end of the February nilitarajia that will be kipupwe kinatoweka and drought will kinaingia.
The situation was totally different.
The rains of ice cold and stern has continued until April.
The residents of walishindwa understand how come here.
Experts said this situation has never happened in 20 years ago.
And at home, where a nikifuatilia news of Tanzania, I see vimetawala rains and flooding in the whole country.
The month of March not usual to see such floods until majumba collapse and people lost their lives.
These are the yaliyoikumba of climate change in the whole world as a result of the environmental pollution.
In order to understand that these changes is well to check his deep, source, its mustakbali and zinazofaa action be taken.
Tusiishie just think our road of Dar es Salaam or flood our house collapse.
Tuzungumzie flood kuteketea or the whole world.
This is a primary to understand that damage is done by a human being.

Doctor.
Peter Werner, who is an expert in the weather at the Potsdam Institute of its examination of the meteorological authorities, he says: "Tunapochunguza weather conditions in the world, like the quantity of rain that is not normal, floods, drought, storm, and to see his changes, we can say for sure that those situation normal non-zimeongezeka four times in the past 50 years".
He says these changes yamesababishwa and the increase in the air like a certain gas mvuke, carbon emission, nitrasi oksaidi, and methane.
Ameharibu, a system of the origin.
It is because for a long time the industries and vehicles yamechafua air to billions of tons of causing the increase of gas summer.
Scientists that fear that the increase in the number of those gas limezuia lisitoke extra the heat of the world.
So, those gas zinanasa extra the heat of the air in the world like the mirror in front of the vehicle kinavyonasa heat linaloingia inside the vehicle.

The panel of international Review Program whether authorities (IPCC) which linadhaminiwa and the United Nations has given the report pages lilipoitisha 2,500 international meeting at the end of the March this year in Yokohama, Japan.
The report iliandikwa and 66 experts and ikasainiwa and 271 representatives from 115 countries, and it says: "There is new evidence and those with more powerful unaoonyesha that in 50 years ago global temperatures have increased due to the actions of human beings".
The report ikaonya: "If these changes will continue then there is no country" itakayopona.

Many researchers wanaonelea that the increase in temperature and this is the major changes in the world.
Wanaaminikwamba his results and there has been a huge increase in the north of the world, together with the drought in Asia and Africa.
We have seen how El Niño ilivyotokea more in the areas of the Pacific and spread elsewhere.
The report of the IPCC has given a stern warning ikieleza how climate change yalivyosababisha climate change so much that the amount of water sources and the availability of food.
The chairman of the IPCC, Dak Rajendra Pachauri has said it is good if the world itazingatia this report, because if itapuuzwa then its results are endangering the community and the whole system of a human being.
Watakaoumia more is poor people who are in the country of the world nzima- "" rich and poor "" countries.
Because the truth is that the number of poor people in the country increases even zinazojiita rich.
"Tunajidanganya that we tunaoishi in rich countries and that we are the ones that will be affected the people just a poor country," said Pachauri and increase, "you need to check the storm Sandy (New York) as an example" limited.
At the meeting of the IPCC participant one is Mrs Christian activist Teriete urged rich countries to prevent climate change.


