
Inspection of buses done through the attention

It has been written by Ikunda Erick

Imechapishwa: 03 November 2016

Transport services of buses to different regions in the country has increased due to the needs of the service.

However, those needs yanapaswa kutimizwa by having travel agencies vinavyokidhi criteria for road safety.
Due to the presence of buses yanayofanya short and long journey, is still needed thorough inspection of the press the fire from time to time, so as to be satisfied with the ability, especially those passenger buses to travel especially a long distance.
For several years now, we have witnessed an increase in road accidents zinazosababishwa or carelessness of drivers or poor conditions of fire equipment, the situation for losing inayoligharimu national strength and also to stop having a family orphans and the permanent physically disabled.
Despite the presence of road safety laws, some of the drivers have been wakizivunja deliberately.
In addition to ensure that those buses yanasafiri were safe, the authority of inspection Regulatory Authority including Surface and Marine Transport Authority (SUMATRA), should kuyakagua in detail then yapewe the resolution to make the journey.
I believe that inspection will enable the removal of yanayokwenda buses through a long yet were able to go for a short way, so avoid accidents or passengers and various misukosuko kuwakuta that are in the way, for example kuharibikiwa and vehicles every time and will be forced to kusumbuka on the way.
There are yameruhusiwa buses traveling in a long distance, for example from Arusha to Dar es Salaam who is a distance of 600 kilometers, though his ability is to travel more than a few kilometers.
There are some of the buses yanasafiri to different provinces while yakionekana obvious that does not have the ability, the state inayostaajabisha and other cause we as authorities and inspection of the quality and the ability those buses zinawajibika as required.
Does not mean that those buses does not have the capability to do any journey, certainly not, yanamudu short journey, so will need to be given's permits for the long journey and not if those of 600 kilometers or more.
That issue is important, that is why ninasisitiza thorough inspection.
Other buses outside have good color, but the ability to make the journey yalizopangiwa has no, due to the university.
It is obvious that travelers who use those buses gets a lot of things that are especially yanapoharibika, their lives that mashakani and their properties are in danger also, for many reasons huharibika in areas that are not safe.
It has become common to see the passenger bus supposed to travel for two hours or three likichukua six hours, because of the banks every after a certain distance.
That situation shows that other buses or hayakaguliwi well or yanaidhinishwa yafanye yasizozistahimili long journey.
This is dangerous.
Ninashauri passenger buses inspection for a long journey to yasiyofaa doing a short yapangiwe.
Let yaendelee to provide services to a distance usioyastahili is endanger the lives of passengers in accidents that can be avoided.
Traffic police are doing their job well, passengers have a good position with the drivers warned wanaohatarisha their lives to run badly and also have the responsibility of providing information about the trend of the bus, including the entire kuzitaarifu relevant authority about the poor wanayoyatumia buses traveling as yakiharibika will be on his way from time to time.
The aim is kuzishawishi inspection authorities ziyakague well before kuyaruhusu doing long or a short journey.
Ieleweke that I, the ability and the drivers' attention is not the only ticket that the safety of passengers traveling, but even the quality of buses itself should kuhakikishwa.


