
Grahamstown: The city of South Africa, where the feelings of discrimination is still severe May 31, 2012, there is a big issue in the open and among the community a mixture of a citizen of South Africa, with it is the remains of apartheid.
In everyday life, there is still the Black People who wanajiona is satisfactory or Wazungu, there are wanaojigamba and Uafrika tackle and also without an account and with the lives of kubangaiza popularly known as coloureds.
But the white anayejiona and reasonable, it is common to be told that unatoka Africa, especially after introducing himself, that is yours, Tanzania, Mozambique, Zimbabwe or any other African countries.

Their home, South Africa is not part of Africa, maybe it is a piece of Europe kilichoangukia in this continent!
In the city of Grahamstown, the situation can be obvious.
In this town hall of disko uliopewa the name Rats and Parrots, (it and Kasuku).
Here, coming Wazungu is empty.
His neighbor is the Equilibrium who contrary Waafrika (unajaa black) and their music is with the origin of this continent.
This town, which is the headquarters of the municipality Makana, for the way it is seen is the same as any other in Europe for the weather condition ubaridi and ulivyojengeka.
But for how many more Wazungu seem to be that, they believe that is when to them!
Ukiishia in the middle of this mjii and ukadhani has got the real life in this nation linalojijenga after through dhalimu of administration, will be that you have ever reach; decision because the things is more than that.
Mister Mbuleli Mpokola he is Mxhosa and the host in this area, and his work is kuwatembeza tourists.
Without words chew says: "Ukiishia hutapata here state of life, the real situation is in the township (uswahilini).
But before that, at a building that was built anatupeleka rage being ship the honor walowezi who came to Africa 1800 years and their contribution and their births are in South Africa.
This building raised the year 1962.
Maybe in showing that cheche of discrimination is still zinaokotwa, Mister Mpokola release different translation of this building.
Says ": This is that it came to ship (masetla), there is a day tutawakusanya tuwaweke the country return to their home.
Sea Watafikaje and return to them, hatujui, because we "hatukuwaita!
But also is showing the building of the Anglican Church which lilijengwa for 145 years, due to the fact that Waafrika were carrying the cement and other construction for the walk on foot and sometimes mikokoteni kuvutwa and the animals from the port of the Indian Ocean.
Analaumu that the current government, under the Blacks, haijalipiza kisasi and if he could have angefanya so.
Anahoji why the government should give equal to the allowances for subsistence life brought in from the Whites and Waafrika (Blacks) settlements; despite the fact that during the reign of Blacks that they got half of Black People beating what?
In the Makana uswahilini area, there is that Black is where many Blacks.
Many of them are walalahoi.
I was there, trying kulilinganisha and torch area Mlalakuwa home in Dar es Salaam, but it is a difference because while South Africa planned houses.
However, life is the hohe hahe it's at home.
"Poor life is.
The shop is a lot of these houses, but for now the government inawajengea shelter for citizens.
Tuliziita of Mandela's house, later zikaitwa Mbeki houses and I think for now zitaitwa houses for Zuma; why everyone getting anabatiza for his name, "says our host Mpokola.
These houses mixture.
Are those that zimejengwa for the support of the government and are evident, but there is also the iron sheets.
Popular chapter between all of these is that many close and they that have electricity and house furniture, and sometimes even the television sets.
Also, this is the area where the alcohol indigenous, popularly known as Umkhomboti, hutamba.
Another chapter, here is that there is no Mchaga or Mmachinga shop at all, they're being forced to buy the things in big shops popularly known as malls, even if it is the only chicken thigh and chipsi.
That situation ilinikumbusha the step of the city of Dar es Salaam and Mwanza sellers race.
Najiuliza; that action was for the benefit of who?
Why when it is happening, that this type of shops (malls) were kuivamia on it.
Mrs J.W. Bouser is mhadhiri at the University of Nelson Mandela, located in Port Elizabeth.
He says that in these areas the uswahilini, there is no peace, and therefore is not safe kuyatembelea.
This situation inajidhihirisha and the fact that kuwakuta rare Black People (Wazungu) in areas like that.
Bar unapoingia in these areas, where even hupigwa music, unagundua anything else; it is that beer bottles here is a capacity for more than those tulizozoea Tanzania for a half liter (500 mililita).
Here is like three-quarters of a liter (780mililita), but in the areas of Wazungu, is a capacity mililita 380 although close price is one despite the different capacity!
Mister Vulkie Teyise, in charge of the Memorial Center Tita between Wazungu Waxhosa and the April 22, the year 1819, is showing part of this center where Blacks wakiteswa were modern in the reign of the European walowezi.
He says there is no aliyeruhusiwa black kusogea there more than those who were arrested protesting against the administrators.
He says that in those fights, such as the war Grahamastown, many Blacks were killed.
During the clashes, the leader of Waxhosa, Nxele was arrested and later to being defeated in the prison of Robben where died from a group.
Is at the prison where Nelson Mandela has also been a loss.
In another area of this city which limetengwa, there are many Wahindi and their houses are pinki.
Mapokela says: "I don't know why these people often wanajitenga, and their houses have this color.
We us pinki color tunapaka usually meaning that the father of the city he had gone to work migodini, therefore the community imlindie his wife!
But I don't know what their wanamaanisha.
Are people of kujibaguabagua "only!
But maybe that their lives yanatisha in this municipality, are those of the community machotara (Coloreds).
They their houses are the boxes and iron, and that is drugs zinakouzwa and dirty ulikokithiri.
Is poor living standards and there is no unakoweza kupafananisha and there.
Although there is one teacher of secondary school claims that ulikwisha apartheid in South Africa in the past, and that is what remains only feelings, but the real situation shows that the sin ingalipo still in this country with great development in the African continent.
Maybe kujihoji or is asking the administration of President Jacob Zuma which has run in this country, and sufficiently to play with this sin?
But another one is that the poor ukimuona in this country is usually hohehohe kwelikweli; why he does not even the kijishamba farm has no.
A big land has been taken by the rich, and more confusion is that wananunua malls in all their needs with great names.
So we Wa Tanzania is the tunayoyakimbilia development?
Nauliza thus; why we we have begun to provide land for investors, and also sellers tunawafukuza to pave way for the big shops of foreign investors.


