
Tuesday, October 25, 2016

Five things that can help you an interim bill that near the Child

Most parents like to be close to the children with the aim of building the learning environment.
Challenges, however, is the lack of enough time to do so.

For example, it is common for parents in the morning and return home from night time that already wameshalala children.
Working big expectations have been priority and therefore tunatumia a lot of time to work that primarily zinazotusaidia are to care for our children.

However, our responsibilities yanatufanya sometimes these important makes us lack time to assist the children, emotionally kiufahamu and even kimahusiano as tunavyotamani.

This article yanajadili five steps to help you to take care of getting time to invest in your children's upbringing.

Consciousness wanakuhitaji children

Most parents think wakiweza to ensure their children wamekula well, are temporary sleeping safe place, wamevaa well, they have good health, wameenda good school and get an important other needs, then finished.

But together with the importance of these needs, it is good to understand that the children wanakuhitaji you more.
Need to be found it can be able to hear them to know the feelings, worry, hope yaliyonayo, uongee them to know their lives, their secret and others that they cannot telling other people.

Imagine something this.
Ukiweza get only ten minutes a day to sit and Mwanao umsikilize and give him a chance to related to you, its meaning out of 168 hours uliyonayo for the week, has managed to become the will and Mwanao for a period of 27 days only when he anafikisha 13 / 12 years old!
Is dangerous do upbringing that "work extra time" that are done when unaporuhusu.

Programming priorities

The division of 24 hours daily tuliyo unategemeana and priorities tulivyonavyo.
Regulations is easy.
Isiyotosha resource huelekezwa in areas of priority.
For example, tunapoweka work ahead, it is clear that a big part of the tutaelekeza in time to work.
Likewise, in those environments tunalazimika to reduce the time to do the things that are not important.

That is saying, recognizing the importance of the availability of Mwanao kunaenda parallel and to an effort to ensure unapangilia your time to get a period of that and Mwanao.
Hutengenezwa time.
Priority in the family, kutakufanya uepuke other things that are not necessary so as to be able to get a good time to be with your family.

For example, instead of through yanayokukutanisha and areas in your friends for talks that are not necessary after the work, you can go home directly and thus get a period of having your family.

Put the objectives of the family

Try involving the children and your partner on making the procedure utakaozingatia expectations of every her.
When you have a plan to make the family unaoeleweka helps children to know what activities the family can kuitazamia.

For many children, for example, to keep in mind the graduation ceremony,, on parents in school and matembelezi is a permanent yanayoweka things in their lives.
Unapokumbuka incorporate these things are in your plans, it helps unajali children to see their things.

Likewise, the activities of the objectives of the family is the system of accountability in the family unaosaidia kukukumbusha a parent to set aside time in order to meet the expectations of children.

Usihamishie "" home office

This is a challenge for many workers.
It is true sometimes completely makes the time finishing our responsibilities at work and therefore forced to go with it at home.
But, even so, there are the practice and loss of time at work sometimes without fundamental reasons.

For example, many workers can spend more time for soga non-productive while at work.
Technology has made it should be easy "living" on social media without the need.
His results, hatukamilishi responsibilities of work in time and a loss of this loss of hufidiwa time for the lack of home.

Kutokuhamishia in line with the work of the office at home, it is important to keep in mind your responsibility as a parent existence at home.
Children need to sit and parent and not a parent who is continuing that the police, the manager, or Engineer teacher when he is at home.

Tenga special time to the family

Imagine using the last day of the week for your family.
In an environment that five days of the week zimekuweka apart from home, to continue and another program on at the end of the week is educational children their basic rights.

Dhamiria that on Saturday and Sunday is special because of to sit and children and the husband / your wife instead of from and friends or other activities to developing kukuweka apart from the family.
When you have home gives your children enough time kukufurahia for talks with the games.

Likewise, waweza think to take children matembezini outside and home in special areas like sports for children, the Ocean beaches, in the garden and open areas, a hotel and even the areas of worship as the requirements and the love of children.

Follow the knowledge inside the magazine Citizen newspaper every day Tuesday.

It has been written by

Christian Bwaya


