
CHADEMA yaibwaga CCM Igunga Aug 22, 2012

Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) kimepoteza the parliamentary seat for another time, after the member of Parliament of Igunga, in the province of Tabora, Doctor.
Doctorauctioneer Kafumu, stripped off that position and the High Court in Tabora.
Doctor.
Amevuliwa auctioneers parliamentary seat after the case was opened to oppose his victory last judgment issued Tuesday by Judge who was listening to the case, Mary Shangali Nsimbo.
The case against the Doctor.
Kafumu was opened by the former parliamentary candidate on the ticket of CHADEMA teacher, Joseph Kashindye, in the parliamentary charges to oppose the Kafumu, aliwaunganisha also the attorney general of the government together with the former manager of the by-election, Protace Magayane.
However, despite that case kumvua parliamentary Doctor.
Kafumu, at all times of the process to listen to the case Kafumu worry showed some violence against Judge Shangali, who also alipuuza that concern against him.
In the results of the by-election, which was held after the former parliamentarian of Igunga, Rostam Aziz, resign, Kafumu was announced as the winner of the seat to get approximately 26,484 votes which is equivalent to 50 percent of all votes cast.
The opponent close to the Doctor.
Kafumu was Kashindye teacher who acquired 23,260 votes which is 44 percent of all votes cast.
Voting in the by-election to the political high tension took place on October 2, last year.
Due to the decision of the court, Doctor.
Amekaririwa auctioneers saying for now anasubiri the decision of his party as watakata appeal to oppose those results or not.
He explained that for some time, which is not a member of parliament he would return in his work of the expertise of minerals.
Kutenguliwa for a parliamentary seat of Doctor.
Kafumu is a blow for the second Party of Revolution.
A penalty was the first for the parliamentary kutenguliwa Sumbawanga Town member of parliament, Aeshi Hilaly.
A case to oppose the parliamentary Aeshi was opened by his opponent close teacher, Norbert Yamsebo (CHADEMA) and the verdict that had and 68 pages read by Judge of the High Court in Mbeya, Betwell Mmila.
That judgment Sumbawanga Town exceptional it and another judgment to oppose the results of the parliament of the former member of parliament of Arusha Town, Godbless Lema.
In a judgment of the parliamentary seat of Arusha Town, Lema alikwishakukata appeal to oppose the appeal judgment, which is still there in the process.
On the side of the judgment Sumbawanga Town, still CCM haijakata appeal and there are reports that the by-election in the constituency can be announced a few months from now.
Still haijawekwa clearly about the following the decision of CCM as kitaka appeal to oppose the results of Igunga judgment or not.
The secretary of ideology and propagation of CCM, Nape Nnauye has talked about that issue saying anasubiri read the verdict and then give the position of his party.
In another step, until we went to the leaders of CHADEMA were found to talk about the judgment.
Tundu Lissu who is the lawyer of the party, alipopigiwa answers and later called without phones are switched off completely.


