
After "has said the then was dumped by Simba Kaseja my level is still" health

Aliyefunguliwa goalkeeper to leave the door in Msimbazi, Juma Kaseja has said the reports of his then was dumped by anazisikia only in the media, and that even if it is true hazijamshtua because he believes that his standards kimesimama still on the line.

For more than a week now, media reports were vikiandika zilizokosa information about the then was dumped by the goalkeeper number one of Simba and the captain of the national team, Taifa Stars.

Kaseja Kigoma who for now is for the purpose of a break, said he knows that his contract and Simba ulishakwisha since after the end of last season, so he is a free agent.

"Only I hear nimetemwa Simba, but true I have not had a letter and even if ningejulisha, I would not be surprised because my contract and Simba ulishamalizika," said Kaseja.

The goalkeeper led to record in the country, said he does not only fight and the leadership of Simba together with kutomjulisha as hawatamwongezea a contract.

I have never even one day "kujulishwa that sitaongezewa a new contract after the end uliotangulia.
There is no leader aliyeniambia anything more than to hear in the media that sitakiwi, "said Kaseja.

"For now I cannot talk a lot because I don't have the rights for now, a period utafika nitaongea.
Napumzika while also cheek as I continued to do exercises because soccer is my employment, "added Kaseja.

Kaseja aliyeidakia Simba for nine years a series since the year 2003, was not ready to put clearly its direction as the decision then was dumped by Simba utabaki still on.

Said: "I cannot say anything now, but when the right time lie open my things.
I believe I'm still ability and never sitakata up even if "nitaondoka Simba.

Since then was dumped by announcing to Kaseja more than one week ago, reports of the inside from Simba zinadai that that decision umezaa chinichini conflict between the leaders.

Although the chairman of Simba Aden Rage, he was once quoted saying that goalkeeper Msimbazi hatavaa jersey of next season, his fellow leaders wanapinga that decision.

Kaseja served kulalamikiwa and fans of Simba at the end of last season playing wakimtuhumu low levels of goals scored a situation that prompted the kizembe.


