
Friday, September 12, 2014

Harm things attracting a man to his Mwenzi -2

We saw in previous articles that a man very deserves to be recognized his ability.
Have the reason to tell him that the man you love her.
The language of love anayoielewa more kusifiwa is his ability.
Together with this, we saw the first man has a lot of hunger of honor.
The honor is kumtii and kumstahi even when he's mkosaji for the language, words and behavior.

Citifmonline.com photo:

In this article, we four other reputation anazozihitaji a man to his month which is basically anayoyatarajia his needs for the month.

He needs independence, private

Uhuru and private certainly is contrary to what women needed as tutakavyoona in future.
But for a man, the truth is that is someone who need to see freedom of anayoyafurahia things without another to be told the difference is supposed to do.

For example, if your husband likes to the ball, the truth is that she wishes ushirikino for you.
Ukiweza ball to try to enjoy utagusa his heart in different ways.
Anything anachopenda your husband at the time of his term in the position of a Fool a surplus that he without kumwingilia except when it is a must.

If he had hayaharibu anayoyapenda things and your life, jiunge and.
Isipowezekana, Mpe the freedom to love his things.
Reasons, for example, does not make him the aachane and his friends as hawaathiri your relationship.
Have reason to make him leave anayoyapenda areas as doing so hakuleti effects.
A Fool a chance to be free.

Likewise, freedom and requiring private goes hand in hand.
Basically, as a woman, understanding each other hours you desire your husband what he is doing.
You need to know his communication, has talked with who, ameandikiana with who, anafahamiana with who and if possible to know the every point of his thoughts.
Maybe you can even investigate kushawishika in secret.

However, for many men, this issue halipendezi.
Wanatamani men to have the opportunity to do their things without kupelelezwa.
Do not like to see wakinyang'anywa the right to have a private discussion.

If you desire that uliojengwa and relationships in the primary group mfanye akuamini, so that in his will to his private life akuruhusu by consent.
As the way he is able anavyokuamini kukukabidhi independence unaoutaka you without bring conflict, wisely.

Mbinafsi anayevutiwa and the body

Although human beings who have to selfishness natural, but itself continues to that of the man the woman.
The common man hujifikiria more he and his needs.
Sometimes even in which times aileti why kujifikiria himself, it is easy to a man kujitanguliza him.

This situation, has kujitanguliza himself first relationship with his maumbile.
God has made up of a man in his eyes.
Inapotawala up understanding of a man, normally, selfishness is born.

Except in an environment that a man amebadilishwa his soul, anaposema anakupenda most of the time he is thinking to get his needs physical.
He is thinking to get your physical features of that can meet its greed.
This situation is different for women.

If you want kumwutia man, ensure physical attracting continues.
Consciousness kinachomvutia and jitahidi puts itself at anayoitarajia way.
A big offence wanalolifanya many women are kujisahau just when they can get married that's.
Unaposahau to continue that it was before the marriage, unachochea selfishness of a man.

Mfanye ajione anahitajika

As a continuation of the authorities tuliyoona that are the essence of uanaume, a man of normal to feel that she's still anahitajika.
The man he desires see that things are not moving without him.

Men wanakua wakiaminishwa and the community, friends age and sometimes through their father are themselves that they are the watatuzi of problems.
And how this faith ilivyojikita mizizi minds of a man, tukisema a man he believes is mtatuzi hatufiki at problems uhalisi.
The man likes to be the answer to all things.

Any attempt the kumwonesha a man that even asipokuwepo, even if anything, even asipotoa any idea, there is no kitakachoharibika can make him 'akahujumu' relationships.
Made ajione hahitajiki, kunaathiri his pride the uanaume (ego) and can be the beginning of the problems.

Even if it is true unamzidi income, unamzidi wisdom, unamzidi awareness, jifunze that under him and mwaminishe that anahitajika.
The man she anahitajika huhamasika love.
Usifanye ajione made the mistake of amekataliwa.

Does not like to be changed

Every a human being does not like to feel there is a person has the ability to change plan.
Many times, we are so tunapojisikia tunabadilishwa kudhalilika.
As the defensive efforts, most of the time that relations with anayejaribu kutubadilisha get affected.

For a man, the situation feel kudhalilika when anapohisi kumbadilika wants his spouse is bigger.
For a man anapogundua there is a crime his vitabia unakazana kuvibadilisha.
The man anapofahamu unambadilisha, he considers himself as someone the person his authority.
Cannot accept to easily.

It is true there are things ayabadilishe unayohisi is important.
Example, friends wanaompetezea his term who could use it and maybe he has no family, inspiration and the things peacefully, maybe it is working anayofanya or certain behavior zinazokukera.
Usijaribu showing the intention to change the.

If you want a man forward and follow what you mkubali ayafanye, as he should know and umempokea without conditions.
Agreed incentives to change.
The regulations.
Your husband she together with his limitations umemkubali still that, to change is the issue of time.

Twitter: @ bwaya

It has been written by

Christian Bwaya


