Police Dar waua caught three pistol, 2, shot zakamatwa 27

January 6, 2017

Caught three out of the five kukimbizwa have died while on the way to the hospital for treatment.
Those criminals were wakijibizana shot by police and two managed to run away.
The commander of the region, Commissioner Simon Sirro, said the incident happened on January 4, this year, at 11 o'clock in the morning at 20: Mikocheni area, is in the Estate, in the building of White Star Tower with various activities in business.
He said in that incident, the police managed to arrest one pistol type of Sig Sauer with number P 229 with four bullets inside the Magazine.
He added that the pistol was caught after an exchange of bullets exchanged between the police and the criminals who came to the area to do the incident criminal'anyi at one of the offices of the building.
Commissioner Sirro said previously those criminals waliwekewa trapped by police, after getting reports of the presence of the police that area, those criminals who were five waliamuriwa to surrender but walikaidi that order and started to fire.
In an exchange that, three robbers were injured but wakikimbizwa hospitals and were killed while two others walikimbia wakifyatua ammunition in the air.
In another step, the army has succeeded to have arrested two suspects for the theft of property of the tourists who is Politics Nassoro (28), the mkaiz Buyuni and Ally Omary (35), a resident of Mafia all goals is fishermen.
The accused were arrested on January 4, this year, seven o'clock in the afternoon Buyuni Estate wakidaiwa to conduct looting of various assets of the tourists who are whites.
Reports of the event donated by the chairman of Buyuni Estate, Shaban Shaa that there are whites eight about having a Tanzanian one, wameporwa all assets after being ambushed by criminals at the Kisiwa Mapanya.
In monitoring the incident then wakawakamata the suspects and various assets of those tourists and after the interview, admitted that being involved with the incident with four colleagues when it continues to look for other suspects.


