
Ambassador of Egypt ahamasisha investment

It has been written by Katuma Masamba

Imechapishwa: 09 December 2016

The government has been advised to encourage many more investors to invest in various sectors in the country in order to grow the economy of the nation at a very fast pace.

Moreover, the government of Egypt has said it has been doing outreach for the business people of that country to come and invest in various sectors in the country including the health sector.
That was explained by the Ambassador of Egypt in the country, Yasser Elshawal while speaking to this newspaper in his office in Dar es Salaam yesterday about the humanitarian aid that was given by the government for the sake of the victims of the earthquake in Kagera.
Said Tanzania's economy is growing by seven percent per year, but the government can increase the growth for opening doors for more investors.
He added that Tanzania is doing very well in terms of the development of the economy and that can look at what it is doing so as to attract more investors and grow the economy doubles.
"My country has the intention of Egypt to encourage investors to come and invest in Tanzania for the benefit of both sides," said Ambassador Elshawal.
Speaking about the donations, said his country has given the donations for the purpose of helping victims of the earthquake especially by considering the existing relationship between Tanzania and Egypt.
"Is the donations and Egypt for the purpose of Tanzania, who were affected by the earthquake in Kagera region," explained.
He said the government of Egypt has given medicine, other well and tents, the treatment worth 70,000 US dollars which is equivalent to 140 million shillings.
"The equipment ready tumeshavikabidhi at the office of the Prime Minister, the department of deaths for being transported to Kagera," added the ambassador.
That support was given by Cooperation and Development of Egypt and the red Hilali of Egypt.
September 10, this year walikufa wenguine 440 17 people and injured as a result of the earthquake size 5.7 using the skeli "" Richter.
That earthquake also liliharibu 14,081 2,063 houses another while having the dangerous situation after getting a crack.


