
Grain handling is important tackling sumukuvu our writer, Citizen Protection tz.nationamedia.com @ article safe after the grain harvest is important for the safety of food because hupun guza a possibility of getting bacterial infections or fungus wanaosababisha different diseases including sumukuvu.
Sumukuvu is the type that is brewed by poison kuvu or fungus wanaoota at various crops like cereal especially maize, sorghum, wheat, and rice needs.
Those Kuvu wanapoota as the ukungu.
Maize is the inayoshambuliwa grain and cereal sumukuvu pollution compared to another.
Other crops harm being attacked by these fungi grain despite include seeds of oil for example, peanuts, cotton sunflower and cashews; makopa or cassava mikavu, organs food example iliki and mdalasini; vegetables and fruits yaliyokaushwa.
Sukumuvu who eat animals are faced with the possibility of affecting their crops example milk or meat.
Pollution sumukuvu at the grain can happen before and after their harvest and cannot be the removal of the normal way for cooking for a long time.
There are the health effects of eating food kilichochafuliwa which include death by the consumer of that meal.
Normally the effects depend on the level of poison in food kilicholiwa, last time since kitumike, the age and health of the consumer in general.
August, it was reported that several people lose lives in Dodoma province after eating food kinachoaminika had sumukuvu infections while others wakilazwa due to its effects.
The effects of a short time is together with the stomach pain, vomiting, fever, degedege, kutokwa many blood, yellow eyes and part of the body both example.
A person showing these symptoms apelekwe health center that is close to quickly.
For a long time, might cause sumukuvu ini cancer, kidney and the throat, affecting the immune system of the body and reproductive growth, affecting the deprived children under five years of age.
The effects of the economy are sick people from sumukuvu infections cause kudorora for production activities property.
A burden of the cost of treatment also affects the economy of each person, family and the nation in general.
Moreover, the business of production outside the country, which is important in promoting national income can lose the market if itafahamika that have a high rate of sumukuvu.
A good example is a loss that Tanzania iliipata the year 2008 after selling 15,000 tons of nuts for US $424 to and noted tons were filthy and the kind of huge sumukuvu aflatoxin.
The price was lower due to the errors compared to the revenue that another country ziliyapata.
South Africa, for example, that year iliuza peanuts to 1,473 dollars for its tons.
This is because were not and a big amount of sumukuvu which could be able to endanger the health of consumers.
Advice of the officers getting is important and farmers should let yanalimwa crops and taken to make sure that the priority in compliance with international standards in order to avoid losses like this one that emerged last approximately one a liar.
Controlling the sumukuvu Zipo many ways of dealing with sumukuvu spread and affect the crops.
How many of these hufanywa after the relevant grain harvest.
Ensure grain maize or zimekauka well before kuzihifadhi is one of the between those ways.
Before kuzihifadhi, it is concerned grain kuzichambua so as to remove dirt and kuzitenga poor ones, zilizopasuka or being attacked by insects.
But the farmer can akaepuka kuanika maize or any other grain in the soil.
Kichanja, experts advise using mkeka turubai or clean floors, which does not have any kind of moisture.
Precaution should be taken even during the things to consider several issues important to food security.
The area should be storing clean and with a good round of oxygen at all times.
Another thing is important is to avoid grain mix the old and new ones.
Haishauriwi mix harvest crops from the different seasons for the safety of the food.
This helps in kutosambaza infection, if you in one of the harvest.
Storage them is important to be careful.
Experts grain wanapendekeza zilizotayari zitunzwe at a new sacks and yapangwe palipoinuka and not the floor.
Kunyunyiza drugs to kuziongezea grain life ulizonazo is also important.
As kuzihifadhi depends on for more than three months, unashauriwa get advice from the agricultural expert report in nye your region about good drug store and how to use it.
Umadhubuti's or the grain storage room is another issue the priority during the composition in order to avoid sumukuvu infections.
Or the room's should kuezekwa well to the point of removing the possibility of kunyeshewa and grain kulowa.
Dona precaution because mobilization and offered by health stakeholders, there has been a great awareness of people love eating Ugali grain of zisizokobolewa or dona.
The organizers of these cereal should be careful when usagaji so as to eliminate the possibility of the fungi to make it sumukuvu.
There are several things kuyatambua important.
Analyzing kuzipepeta and cereal grain so as to remove dirt and zilizoshambuliwa and insects is among those ways.
Another step is kuyaosha maize or any grain kuisaga location and kuianika until ikauke well.
Helps to ensure all this vijidudu were removed before grinding.
There is a need grain kuanika ulizonazo about kichanja, mkeka or turubai so as to prevent pollution of fungus present in the ground if utazinika under.
Even after grinding flour uhifadhiwe in an kisafi, kikavu and kisochoruhusu unyevunyevu it.
If possible the vessel with flour kiwekwe part without unyevunyevu.
However, scientific reports show grain pulping is reducing the pollution sumukuvu in a big way so advised dona eating for the purpose of the health firm.
Because grain maize and in general, is a staple food of many people in the country is good for all stakeholders in the value chain of food to consider the policies of the health avoid sumukuvu.
By considering the agricultural regulations, from conservation, distribution and processing of maize and its products that can reduce the effects kuikumba communities to eat food sumukuvu kilichochafuliwa and thus increasing the assurance of life safe.


