
-sign at the invaded by Swazuri wanaswe in detail and the criminals action can be taken against them.
Doctor Swazuri not normal officer of the government.
T leads important commission which itaamua the fate of several owners of land, especially those who were their certificates ownership vimepitwa and time.
The commission for now and the investigation is continuing in relation to the land unyakuzi in different parts of the country and especially in the area of Lamu where several acres of land zilinyakuliwa and famous people.
Therefore, there is a possibility that those criminals walilenga taking important documents to sabotage any investigation that commission which ungewezesha wanyakuzi to identify those who have used, yamkini, relatives and friends taking the land.
Tumerejelea this story considering that a few months ago, the home of the Doctor walivamia robbers Swazuri in Nairobi but the attempt likatibuka when his security guards walipokabiliana them.
The Doctor headquarters Swazuri is in the building of the safety of the highest order, linalolindwa for 24 hours every wakati.Hivyo then, it is surprising that can be able to enter criminals land House easily, kufululiza until the office of which imo ghorofani and breaking people and important documents without AP soldiers who protect the attention of the building.
Tunatumai police do thorough investigation and give nguvuni those criminals and also the waliozembea administration at work.
The most important thing is that the attack shows need copies of documents in the important government preserved elsewhere, so as to prevent the possibility of criminals to disrupt the evidence.
Similarly, tunahimiza acting inspector general of police, Mister Samuel Arachi to assess the officer's defense in his home and afisini with the aim of kuuimarisha even more itabainika that if there is a possibility of criminals and his work wasiofurahia kumdhuru. ukio walivamia which office of the chairman of the National Commission land Muhamed Mister Swazuri on Friday and important documents linapasa people tested


