
Azam, Stand in hot war Premier League

It has been written by Grace Mkojera

Imechapishwa: August 2 October 2016

Soccer teams Azam FC and Stand United today zitashuka playing in different stadiums to seek the victory in the competition of the Premier League in Mainland Tanzania.

Azam and Stand is among the zinazowania team position in high positions.
Before yesterday's match between Simba and Yanga, Stand United was the second position having 12 points, and Azam FC was holding the fourth position with 10 points behind Yanga.
Azam FC may today ikapoza pain losing two games in a row in the match against Ruvu Shooting at the Azam Complex, Chamazi.
Coming from lost against Simba 1-0 and against Ndanda FC 2-1.
In six games iliyocheza, three won, coming from a draw one and two lost.
On the side of Ruvu, the 10th placed with eight points after winning two games, from two draws and lost two games.
Stand United is the second team after Simba, playing six games without losing ikishinda, three and get three draws.
Mtibwa Sugar will play against African Lyon at Manungu Morogoro.
Is holding the fifth position with 10 points after winning three games out of six, to get a draw in one and two lost.
It's going to encounter the African Lyon 12 with six points, ikishinda one game, having two three draws and lost.
Both teams need to win puts itself a safe place.
Kagera Sugar it's going to encounter zikifanana Prisons for all nine points, zikishinda two games, zikipoteza one game and get three draws.
Also need to increase their victory into points in the process of contesting to high positions.
Majimaji will be in his home at the welcoming Majimaji Songea Stand United.
The team lost coming from all sports, maybe six to return to their coach Kalimangonga Ongalla kukaleta new hope to restore faith in his fans.
Unlike Stand United which also matokezo kukaza, can get good and to continue kutesa in the second position.
Wood will host JKT Ruvu at the CCM, Kirumba Mwanza.
The seventh placed eight points after playing seven games, two winning, getting two draws and lost three.


