
13 December 2012

The bill the law of citizens get information to land in parliament

The government expects to take the legal bill of rights and freedom of the citizens to get all the important information on all government institutions in the session of parliament next year.
Minister of the Constitution and Law, Mister.
Mathias Chikawe, made the remarks in Dar es Salaam yesterday at the launch of the open competition which organized by the non-governmental organization of Twaweza in collaboration with the government in order to get opinions from citizens, especially the young people who are in school.

He said the aim of the government to take the bill in parliament is to enable the law which utungwaji zitasimamia collecting opinions from the citizens, increasing transparency and accountability of the government in conjunction with the citizens.

"Next year tunapeleka this bill in parliament in order for you to be debated, the aim is to ensure that the government will have a close partnership with the citizens, Mister" said.
Chikawe.

Speaking about the competition, Mister.
Chikawe said limelenga to improve the health sector, water and education where every citizen is supposed to give opinions anayoona can bring great changes in the sector.

He added that, the competition litatoa the position for the citizens to partner with the government to deal with different challenges that are in those sectors in the country for the benefit of the country.

He urged citizens to come out to give their opinion to the international plan of running the Open Government Partnership (OGP plan), to be successful by eradicating corruption and using the new technology to strengthen good governance.

On his side, the director of Twaweza, Mister.
Rakesh Rajani, said the citizens they will give opinions about how to improve health services, education and water so as to bring change.

"Youths who are students, as they will better views in this competition their schools will be given first computer, so as to increase accountability and transparency in the country, there is the importance of government institutions and non-governmental organizations to start the system of the provision of all the important information to the public, Mister" said.
Rajani.


