
Edward Lowassa: CCM kiwewe has

January 13, 2017

Former prime minister and member of the executive committee of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Edward Lowassa, has said that the improvement in unity and solidarity among the opposition parties in the country kunawatia kiwewe Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) that are leading the government and they started doing political dirty tricks.
Lowassa made the remarks yesterday in Gaprina Hotel, in Kahama, Shinyanga province where he while on the way to go in Kagera province in a tour to strengthen the party.
He said that the improvement in solidarity under under the parties forming the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) is a big step in the journey kuing'oa CCM power and so that they can be able to enter the State House to lead the dollar.
"Started the dirty tactics kutuondoa in our union kuwalisha for our leaders words... there is one newspaper limenilisha likidai words that nimeitabiria CCM victory in the by-election councilor in Arumeru.
"These are incredible things, newspaper (not this time), linaishi for our tax citizens, today dugout used to break the democracy this is something sad," insisted Lowassa who in that trip accompanied by the deputy secretary general CHADEMA Zanzibar, Salum Mwalimu.
He added that; "wanaandika lies afternoon kweupe that I was in the campaign at Ematasia slum... I sikwenda, technique they are undertaking wameshazijua citizens, they are not ready to see their desire to change" inapotea, he said.
Lowassa who appeared in Zanzibar, where he went to participate in the election campaign launch of the minor akimuunga Dimani constituency parliamentary candidate of CUF, said that the opposition parties have a great solidarity and urging their members to follow the example.
"Tunazofanya tour in order to strengthen the party, also tunaimarisha solidarity among the opponents get... CCM kiwewe, tunawaambia even wafanyeje hayaepukiki changes, watawatia inside our leaders of malice but know that is the vuguvugu increases, this is strong unaovuma all over the world, learn what happened Gambia Union, Ghana and elsewhere," insisted.
In another step, hundreds of residents of Kahama Town hotel waliizingira aliyofikia Lowassa want to see where the news of his presence have spread on Wednesday morning, yesterday evening where those citizens arrived at the hotel.
While on the way to the Bukoba, Lowassa and his entourage got the chance kusalimiana and the citizens in the auction Lusahunga Biharamulo district where the citizens walimwambia that their state of life is difficult, also faced and drought.
However, Lowassa hakuzungumza anything more than kuwapungia and greeted them saying the public meetings has been banned and would not to break the law and the order.


