
Majaliwa: Tutalinda peace by all means

It has been written by Our Reporters

Imechapishwa: 13th September 2016

Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has requested the religious leaders to use the house of worship, to encourage their followers the importance of to protect and maintain peace and stability in the country.

He has emphasized that the government itadumisha peace and stability in the country by all means to Wa Tanzania to be sure of continuing to do their work and income generating enhance productivity.
The prime minister said that while speaking with believers of the Islamic religion industry after finishing the Idd el Haji at the Mwembe Yanga, Temeke Dar es Salaam yesterday.
Speaking at the council of Idd "; he said the government will continue to strengthen the security in all areas in the country.
My call for the religious leaders msisitize believers about the composition of peace and unity to condemn evil actions to "lizidi move forward.
Majaliwa insisted to the citizens to continue to pray for pilgrims Makka and Madina who are in Saudi Arabia, continuing with the worship Hija return to safe.
Also, the Prime Minister used the opportunity to ask the citizens to help in status and property waliokumbwa people and the earthquake in Kagera province, where a total of 16 people walikufa, others 253 injured and thousands of citizens to lack shelter after falling another 840 houses and 1,264 get a crack, 44 buildings including the various institutions of the public.
Previously, reading the speech upon Idd International, the lecturer, Shehe Nurdin Kishki said Islam is a religion of peace, therefore, has urged to refrain from acts of breach of peace including the killing of people who do not have the guilty.
Shehe Kishki said it is important to protect people ikitoweka peace, because it is difficult to restore.
He gave an example of a country of Libya and Egypt, which have not been able to restore.
Said anyone who is engaged in acts of umwagaji of blood, kudhulumu wealth of the people and kuwavunjia honor his colleagues, he will be ameangamia, therefore, he urged residents of the Tanzania especially Temeke have to avoid.
"Temeke now is leading in the events of the killings, killing up to security guards.
Soldiers have been killed without guilty, this issue linasikitisha so much.
The people who do the job of protecting its citizens and their property wanauawa without guilty, "spoke in shock and requested Wa Tanzania they evade and actions hivyo.Pia Shehe Kishiki congratulated the fifth phase of the government for their commitment to serve the citizens and bring development to therefore urged the citizens to be on the front line to cooperate for the country to be able to kusomba in front.
"Brethren tumepewa great honor today pray Idd and the Prime Minister, again has come here to this at the Mwembe Yanga, this shows the closeness of our leaders heads to their citizens, especially the poor," said.
BAKWATA yalia and professionalism of the leaders in another step, the Supreme Council of Muslims Tanzania (Bakwata), has urged for change in accordance with the profession in order to avoid the leaders with erosion of values and wasiojitambua.
Mufti of Tanzania, General Sheikh Abubakar Zuberi made the remarks yesterday after Idd issue, at the headquarters of the council, Kindononi, iliyofuatiwa and the council of Idd was attended by various leaders of the government.
Mufti said the time has come for Muslims to change because there are those working contrary to their profession.
He also said that the council is expected to open the stations to provide education to increase knowledge 'house' knowledge, the aim is to increase skills and knowledge of religious education in the community and the country.
"The presence of these facilities that will help to give the ignorance and having good leaders from the education of aliyosoma and know a certain place to live and people, previously Bakwata was never, and that the religious" vinavyojitegemea, he said.
Moreover, elegant urged the Muslims in the country to start a religious education teaching facilities together with other studies, as the technical language.
He said it's better for every Tanzanian should have a problem with his country and discover themselves in working with kuamrishana yaliyomema for refusing to evil together with kuvumiliana so as to bring development.
"Tunaamrishwa integrity doing good if there will be no good watenda tuamrishane itaharibika country, good to worship and to work... God loves", he said.
Moreover, used the opportunity to pray for those who received and disaster of the earthquake that occurred in Kagera, Mara and Mwanza recently.
On his side, the retired president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi said that it is good for the change and build new Bakwata stylish because already he has expressed the intention.
My brothers tubadilike "I want to start with this stylish aliyozungumza showing Bakwata is what it is and what we help because one finger cannot kill lice interest this is very good," said Mwinyi.
He said every issue new begins to those weakness everyone is supposed to add strength to bring change.
Shein akerwa and conflicts of Muslims President of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, speaking at the council of Idd, he urged the citizens of Zanzibar to maintain peace and stability and so as to give way for the government to implement development programs that in the period of the second phase of its implementation has started well.
He said that in the hall of Pemba Mkanyageni Secondary School in the speech of the Council of Iddi.
Said that in the next five years, the government is in the process of strengthening the projects community services and development, including clean and safe water where for now its implementation has reached 80 percent.
He said put more availability of services in the villages, where umewekwa until the year 2020 that service can reach the citizens to 97 percent.
He said that the implementation of the projects, safe water and goes well and the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, supported by the international organizations and financial institutions.
"My call to the citizens of Unguja and Pemba is to strengthen the peace and stability of the country and people love each other so as to give his projects for the government to implement various community services and development... we've started well by using our internal strength together and supported by the countries development partners," said.
He said that the great success have been reached in the health sector.
On the side of Pemba 27, health centers are in the final stages of completion including the construction of Abdalla Mzee Hospital located in Pemba.
He said the construction of the hospital is being done by the cooperation with the government of China, are in the final stages of completion and make the citizens of Pemba to get all services of health Pemba, without traveling to outside the island.
He said the hospital has the reputation of the referral hospital.
On the side of the small health centers, he mentioned the new stations vitakavyojengwa that is Ndagoni, Tasini, Vikunguni and Chake Chake and Pemba province.
"Service we are committed to ensuring the best are the health sector and to reach all citizens including in the villages... we do not see a citizen Unguja forced to look for treatment using" costly, he said.
Moreover, he said the road construction work is going on Pemba Island and its aim easing travel to the villages for the purpose of strengthening the agricultural sector.
He mentioned the road Mgagadu until Kiwani kilomitar 7.6, with a length of the road Kengeja until Ole with a length of 35 kilomitar together with the road of Tasani until Kangani is complete at the level of them.
He said all these development yatafanikiwa, as the issue of peace and tranquility litapewa priority for the citizens to obey the laws together with leaders of political parties.
Doctor Shein aliwakumbusha citizens that among the great training, that are found by Muslims in the period the Idd el Haj is unity and solidarity.
He said that service has made millions of urged, kukusanyika together at the Arafat without caring about their ability to honor, or the financial their tribe.
Idd issue, as well as the council was attended by various leaders of the party and the government, including the second vice president, Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, the minister of state, the office of the president and the chairman of the Revolutionary Council Issa Haji Ussi, the speaker of the House of Representatives Zubeir Ali Maulid and Kadhi, the head of Zanzibar Khamis Haji.
This news has been written and Sophia Mwambe Dar and Khatib Suleiman, Zanzibar


