
70 houses were swept Dodoma

It has been written by Lubasi, Dodoma, special

Imechapishwa: 09 November 2016

The campaign to demolish houses to pave way for roads construction has been accepted well by the residents of Sechelea and Amani neighborhoods located in Dodoma municipality.

The response uliopokewa by words and actions, will enable the 70 approximately houses that are in the areas of the road, being demolished and therefore pave way for the construction of the road.
The ward councilor, Juma Mazengo (CCM) said, 70 houses with 2,000 families that were zimejengwa in the estates of Sechelela and peace, zimekubali pave way for construction of roads to the citizens to get social services.
Mazengo said all people waliobomolewa their houses, wametafutiwa other areas so as to pave way for making the roads well to the residents of those areas to be given zinazofanikishwa services and the presence of roads without a problem.
Those services include zimamoto cars, buses and even patients.
"When a mother while pregnant woman and the vehicle is required iende until mlangoni ikamchukue usually is a big problem.
Certainly social services to arrive in these areas is difficult, was tulikaa forums and kukubalina demolishing houses so that we can get these roads, "Mazengo said.
A large number of women in the streets congratulated the step that they said that is the liberation to the community because the lack of the road was one of the problems iliyowanyima excitement to especially during childbirth.
While speaking to journalists yesterday during the road to demolish houses to pave way for the mother, has said they have been wakipa difficulty, during childbirth due to the vehicle failed to get into their residential areas.
One of those women, Amina Issa said while pregnant with her second child, was hekaheka due to the vehicle being unable to enter in that area, a situation that forced him her husband ant carrying an up to the main road to get travel.
The chairman of Sechelela Estate, Norbat Pangasero said they used more education to educate citizens the importance of getting social services so that they can get development.


