
The luck MWENZAKO door USIILALIE WAZI disappearance of electricity from time to time in poor neighborhoods in urban and rural areas is not a kustaajabisha.
The residents of these areas is forced to sit in the dark for a long time before seeing again light.
Mrs Susan Wendy Shihemi is among the residents of slum streets that is mask as Eastleigh neighborhood in Nairobi, who have been wakiathiriwa contributed a lot and the situation of electricity.
Last year, Miss Shihemi was saluni ameajiriwa at one in that area and every time the strength of electricity zilipopotea for a whole day, alirudi home without bread despite having wanaomtegemea children.
"Ukiajiriwa at unalipwa saluni, according to your work, as hutafanya return home to work without even one senti," explains.
"Were difficult life to an extent that paying taxes, the house had a problem, Miss" anaongezea Shihemi who now is chairman of a group of 15 women, kinachofahamika as Twinklers.
50,000 shillings this group which started a hotel owns some due to Sh50,000 received the award after emerging winners in the competition kuokota packets of soap kufulia of Ariel.
Apart from employing five youths, members of this group who had also work wamejipatia employment in the hotel.
"Our work and that many of us were not tumejiajiri now in our hotel group and even to start our business of personal reasons," says.
This group kilianzishwa last year the manufacturers of soap of Ariel when they visited the area and urged the women who were close to form groups for the purpose of the collection of the soap packets.
"Luckily the that day electricity was umepotea and I was only nikipiga soga and my colleagues in the market because" sikwenda at work, he says.
He continued, "tuliambiwa kujigawanya in groups so as to start collecting competition packets Ariel.
Tulichukulia that humor but tukahakikishiwa that the competition was of true and the winners wangepokea "Sh50,000.
After collecting those paper for approximately one month, this group waligutushwa and good news that is wameokota were lucky packets by collecting more than other groups in the parliament Kamkunji, Wajir Nairobi.
Miss Shihemi says that the members decided to start a project, which ungeimarisha their lives of come instead of share the money and then kusambaratika group.
"Tulianzisha hotel business because it's our many ingeajiri who we're vibarua that are not productive," explains.
The profit every day after sales members of this group huketi under and to do so as to be noted that profit calculations.
Three-quarters of the labor group profit wanakopesha who are required to return the money together with the interest of the 10 percent every after one month.
Quarter "inayosalia tunahifadhi in the bank, says Miss" Julia Muthoni who is the secretary of the group Twinklers.
Miss Muthoni explains that unlike former vibarua where he was doing the washing clothes to subsistence life, now his life has changed in a big way.
"You can walk in all the houses on the streets without getting the person kumfulia clothes.
Similarly, water yakipotea in this neighborhood, work, says Miss hukwama "Muthoni who is the mother of two children.
According to Irene Mwathi who is the officer of a good relationship of the company Procter & Gamble (P & G) which inatengeneza soap of Ariel, more than 140 groups across the country vimenufaika and the competition packets of collecting which hutupwa after the soap to end.
"Groups that yamefanikiwa get that money yanajihusisha and various activities like, of poultry farming, coal business, making bricks, the business of milk among others," explains Miss Mwathi while akiongezea that competition is still continues.
Twinklers is among the groups according to the Minister for Planning and Ugatuzi Miss Ann Waiguru, already a total of 5 billion zimesabazwa in all the whole 290 nchini. umla Sh4 ziligawanywa billion in the same area where every parliament lilipokea Sh13,847,586 while the amount of money that are remaining zikigawanywa according to the level of poverty according to the report of the statistics in the country (KNBS).
Parliament of usini Mandera area is involved in an amount of the money of BI Shihemi Sh31.8 million East Lamu while receiving a sum of the lowest Sh14.2 million.
Groups of women, youth and student waleambavyo ready a request to benefit from the money for the Treasury ability.
"Tukifanikiwa to get the money for the ability we target to open a hotel in central Nairobi city, says chairman" Shihemi. mavu vimetimiza vinavyohitajika criteria that can take a loan of between 500,000 shillings Sh50,000 and be charged without interest.
A group kinapaswa having nine people and under the age of 15 between the age of 18 and 35.
Likewise, that group is that it is a must be a bank account and the name of that group


