
Waonjao peoples meat end hula their children Jul 5, 2012

If there is an incident that limetikisa National last week of doctors strike is not especially but utekwaji kidnapped, kuteswa and the attempted murder of the leader of the strike Doctor.
Stephen Ulimboka.
National last Wednesday night is ready and the beginning of the doctors strike lilijikuta linaonyeshwa his chapter, which it has now started another kuzoeleka.
That, there are people wakatili between us and the people who can do anything for anyone and there is no of wakuzuia.
Against and ilivyosemwa and Commander Suleiman Kova and repeat and President Jakaya Kikwete, that is something new to utekwaji kidnapped and happened for the first time "" the truth is that this issue has now begun that as usual.
Whether is abductions captured of the environment of political or of the private visasi.
In politics already know three case which until now, the perpetrators hawajapatikana.
There is the case of the young Ubungo who was abducted captured the night before the by-election in Igunga.
The youth that aliyeitwa Mbwana Masoud disappeared in mysterious circumstances.
Was he had gone Igunga debe makers as one of the Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
He wasn't known until a few days later his body ulipookotwa with wounds which yaliashiria that the youth that aliteswa so much before being killed.
So, there are people were doing their tricks exercises dirty?
Atasahau who is the members of CHADEMA attacked on the night of 8 and injured again ikidaiwa in front of the police but there is no anyone who was arrested until now?
What are people who have the courage attacking members of parliament for swords without having a certain security behind them?
This anayewalinda who is especially?
The incident of attacked by Doctor.
Ulimboka for truly this proves that the saying wahenga that eat the meat of hakukomi person.
Someone akishaonja then atataka eating again.
I believe there are people who have already this wameshaonja blood of activists and now can't stop.
And because these people who appear to qualify in the ways of mateso and affects tusitarajie people guilty of being left people alive as it was with Doctor.
Ulimboka.
This desire to kill people is not new in our continent, or other parts of the world, especially when they don't have a rulers concern defend himself more than coercion.
Who atasahau yaliyomkuta Steve Biko in South Africa?
Not and was aliyewaongoza activist youth their rights akiwafungua to discover who they are and what they deserve?
He is not the government of Kikaburu ilimuona is their enemy great anagusa because the thoughts of people?
It's not the one who alifia in police custody after being given a severe blow and mateso?
Who amesahau of Robert Ouko in Kenya who his body ulikutwa umechomwa - again this getting that minister?
People are saying ati rule of Julius Nyerere was forced.
There is a person can kutuonyesha someone aliyeteswa or series of people who their bodies ilikutwa imeumizwa for mateso ati because the government or a group of people was hakiwataki.
Oscar Kambona, Abdallah Fundikika, Kasanga Tumbo and others who were the opposition of many Nyerere wameishi and seeing the old age!
Today youth opponents style watauona old age this true?
Or have all wakimbilie in exile that safe?

Even if tukikubali kinadharia that these actions (together with all the East Arumeru vinafanywa) and the genge wahuni, so, we can believe in any way that our government is prepared to deal with them?
Right tumesahau how walivyokuwa Tanzania Albino Society wanatekwa and killed ruthlessly and how our government ilivyochukua time to control those acts?
More than 40 Tanzania Albino Society were killed and have occurred under all those leaders - Kikwete at the State House, Mwema as IGP and Rashid Othman as the head of the security of the nation.
Who he is thinking to get that this group, this will be able to control those acts of abductions captured.
So, if there is a possibility that the other people abduction again and to undergo badly that nachulia or naangalia from what happened and to be able to reach the conclusion that we do not have the capacity to deal with these actions?
Kinachotibua more, and it seems our citizens seem to be accepted, is that the issues of crime yachunguzwe by the commission.
Others this tulipinga since during the EPA but now it seems imekubalika that uundiwe crime commission!
But the more infuriate those involved are the ones that are in the commission wanaami waunde!
Not Songea we have seen?
We saw Tabora?
But is why hatujifunzi and to recognize that the country haitawiliwi or directed by the commission?
If the commission were are leading the country there would be no ministers or different institutions which zimeundwa which ingeweza commission to what to do.
The commission is required by a an independent body, it's impossible, for example, police watuhumiwe to participate in the crime and the police to be at the commission, those mentioned include especially if the top officers of the army.
The commission that way is the peak of an illusion of administrators.
But something more frightening is that if it is true there are people wanaotumiwa and others doing things like this and it takes more than one week for the police to be able to think him anyone, then the threat of our safety is bigger than the National but think.
Imagine if it was aliyekumbwa and that issue is the minister or the head of the region.
Imagine only that one of the famous ministers anatoweka and his morning anakutwa Mabwepande while foul taabani bin, kang'olewa teeth and zimenyofolewa nail brand.
Imagine as police and security and the response that they wameuonyesha right!
This true ingechukua five days or the formation of the commission?
True the response of President could be like this?

Or we go ahead more - imagine aliyetoweka this way is the child of one of the leaders of the nationally who heads to much in the media or anahusishwa and specific things.
Then anakutwa in a state that was found with Doctor.
Ulimboka, this is not the whole country tungeambiwa topped to act?
True mnafikiri feelings of some of the people that "leader of" alichostahili get a strike were so great for the child of?
Of Doctor.
Ulimboka linatufundisha that corrupt, they don't have a taboo.
To be corrupt is in government or outside, they do not know what kutokufanya.
And because this is true this nawahakikishia that the Doctor.
Ulimbuko is not the end.
Litazama litafika and is very high.
These these wanaochekelea will their and districts are complaining of and complaining.
It should be remembered wakishaua witches children of their colleagues and will be required to kill of their home.
And it is for those who like knocking over the blood of other people.
Itakuja days and the itamwagwa them.
Not be written a place that lives in Upanga atakufa for Upanga?
Tusichukulie easily this issue and think ati Doctor.
Ulimboka kakomolewa.
If his life yatakatishwa for this reason, especially because ameumizwa so much, then Wa Tanzania know that will pass; we live in different times.
At group that there is no again and everyone is of kumshuku even if it is one of the brothers.
Not during again living in the deception "peace, unity, stability and" solidarity.
If they have been able to do this in famous person like Doctor.
Ulimboka, another for anyone can do; as a capable members it should be remembered even wafagizi watafanyiwa.
A big issue is to look at an account watakalolisukumiza why several times now famous an account is "was anatembea and someone's wife".
If people think of and believe these statements provided in haste, then we have a big problem because our killers more kutunyemelea sitting.


