Waliong these'arisha Simba and Yanga 6 October, 2016 of our writer in entertainment & Sports

The game of the teams of old rivals in the country - Simba and Yanga, has ended at the end of the week in a draw of drawing 1-1, while the game, with many tafrani outside and inside the stadium.

The match that was played at the National Stadium, lilishuhudia yakitokea doing different things and the teams are currently closed using the stadium to indefinitely due to the destruction of infrastructure that was done by the teams.

Despite the game to be in a state of chaos, but Good Citizen, lilienda the field for the purpose of kuutazama that game and earn you a mixture of squad players of the team who performed well.

Vincent Angban (Simba) - doing this door, a citizen of Ivory Coast showed some violence great stability for his an kuipanga well his defense line all the time of the game.
Despite Simba, to play with nine people on the pitch after their captain, Jonas Mkude was given a red card, but Angban kuituliza was team and to ensure it gets drew 1-1.

Janvier Bokongu (Simba) - before the defender of the game this former TP Mazembe Club, atapwaya appeared in the area due to the speed of Yanga players, but its veteran-ship Bokongu showed some violence and well.

He was able to plague the defender striker of Yanga, Juma Mahadhi who alipangwa his side, and there is a time planting a profile before the attacks.

Mohamed Hussein "Tshabalala - (Simba) - every unapotoka one game to another this full forward is showing maturity inapokuja big games.

Tshabalala, anayeshindanishwa strength and the defender of Yanga, Haji Mwinyi Mngwali, was able to kumzima completely Yanga's attacking mid-fielder, Deus Kaseke, who is among the players the danger of Yanga who also hutengeneza a lot of their attackers Donald Ngoma and Ammis Tambe.

Andrew Vincent "Dante - (Yanga) - Dante who had come in the second half to take the position of Kelvin Yondani" Vidic, "former and one yellow card to strengthen security came together and Vincent Bossou.

Dante, aliyesajiliwa from Mtibwa Sugar, came to make major changes in the second half been waiting for him to save the ball on the filling the balls.

Method Mwanjali (Simba) - this defender king'ang'anizi with the old age Siha alitimiza well his responsibilities to stand well and Donald Ngoma of Yanga, who at all times huwasumbua Simba's security guards.
Despite Mwanjali that and the responsibility of protecting, but he then went to another time before the attacks.

Mbuyu Twite (Yanga) - Twite who is kiraka eno he think that the attacking mid-fielder for standing in front of four defenders and to protect.
Nampa this opportunity because of how alivyomudu its responsibilities and made a pass by Amissi Tambwe.
The pass was of its kind.

Mwinyi Kazimoto (Simba) - Kazimoto that played the winger and there are akija center to help during the attacks, he is a player who led the Simba kuchezewa madhambi in that match.

After Mkude was given a red card, Kazimoto came out of honor to help each other and Muzamiru Yasin and were able to control the area in the middle of the field.

Thaban Kamusoko (Yanga) - this citizen of Zimbabwe has been one of the Simba vizingiti getting the victory in his recent games against Yanga.

This mid-fielder former FC Platnum of Zimbabwe was at his best kuiunganisha well for the team in the area of the mid-fielder and attacking player.

Ammis Tambwe (Yanga) - one thing and there is a primary thing about skilled attackers.
Don't have mercy and is wabinafsi people.

People can say about kuushika Tambwe ball before closing.
But, if it was by Thierry Henry in the past and other washambualiji, Tambwe could not stop scoring aliushika for ball before.

How the ball and kuupachika alivyoutuliza net right to Angban kulionyesha how he Tambwe skilled in completing the.
This is the number nine obsolete.

Ibrahim Ajib (Simba) - just as there is a player who doesn't have a doubt his skills in the country for now, then that is Ajib.
By comparing the and Donald Ngoma of Yanga, Ajib at least alijitutumua.

Scored that goal lilikataliwa and the referee and every time he tried to do yaliyoiweka things the defense line Yanga in a difficult time.

Shiza Kichuya (Simba) - you cannot kuutaja this game without emerging as the striker this mid-fielder aliyesajiliwa at the beginning of this season from Mtibwa Sugar.


