
Wasikurupuke registering players

It has been written by Vicky Kimaro

Imechapishwa: 19 November 2016

The circulation of the first stage of the Premier League have ended recently and for now, the team are in the process of making adjustments to their squads, for the purpose of the second league official planned to start early next month.

Already some of the club have already started to search the Capital City signing new players for the purpose of strengthening their squads for different goals.
Rocks Simba, Yanga and Azam wakipigania searching for the championship, there are teams like machine, water, water, African Lyon and others zitapigania kujinusuru relegation.
Big, players are supposed to be keen, kutokurupuka their decision in the knocking over ink at different team.
Watulize players headlines for wasifanye kushawishiwa, kishabiki and mihemko from the fans and the leaders of the club, especially the old wakajikura last wanajitia kitanzi on the neck.
The players, especially, it is a must for the upcoming wajitathimini their ability and the club to wanazotaka kuzichezea as wanalingana them and countries will be able to help them develop their talents or kuvizika and veterans mwishowe that at an early age.
The season of yields registration is not to the players, but even the dressers and the coaches, the club itapendeza registration done through the professionalism of the highest order, for the benefit of both sides because of the players and the club, so as to mwishowe lipae soccer in Tanzania.
Comedian Hatutarajii as vilivyotokea at a big transfer of registration, Hassan Kessy alipotumikia Yanga angali and the contract and Simba, the decision who until today unamtesa while he doesn't know the fate of his case which Simba to be paid, have urged 600 million shillings.
In the first round, we have witnessed some players putting on signs smudged due to cheating and causing kuadhibiwa and committee for justice and dignity of players of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF).
The problem of cheating to the players is yet to be sustainable to Tanzania, although a certain period lilipotea especially in the Premier League, but in the league under bridges of cheating has been great and many have been complaints.
Premier League players on the issue of registering the two teams has been common limeshazoeleka and to the ears of soccer stakeholders, due to repeat that commotion from time to time.
All the time with registration controversy in the Premier league even if it is of the old club kimkataba usually unazihusisha Simba and Yanga.
All the case which hutikisa the media here in the country huzihusisha zenyewe for those club zenyewe or zenyewe and other clubs where zinasajili his player.
We have witnessed wakifungiwa players for many mistakes like this, with the players that were ever done in the previous years and given a penalty by the TFF, but the issue is yet to be understood very difficult for players.
Nionavyo, greed for money, the law that is they have been ulimbukeni vikiwaponza some of the players and the conflict entering a kimkataba and others wakiishia closed to find themselves in football for a period of six months to one year.
The party of the soccer players in Tanzania (Sputanza), though hakiungani and kinaamini that penalty but there was a time when it is good stern punishment zikatolewa to stop the habit of cheating and building discipline in a game of soccer.
"As tutatetea this issue we mean tunatetea cheating continues, often tunakataa usually given the player great punishment being closed the life or one year because we believe that that has a great effect because the player is expecting to play as his job, but in these cases as it is a must that we should build the discipline for our players to know and to respect the law," says the Secretary General of Sputanza, Mussa Kisoki.
Kisoki said it has come now during the players to register at their party in order to help them to manage their contracts and not to wait until the conflict with other at their club.
Wawaelimishe team players of the Premier League and the First Division League, about their rights and duties, their freedom in matters of registration and other important issues yanayoleta mistakes for the players, especially in the contracts and registration.
The players to be careful in itawezekana entering contracts and if they should have by the lawyers of the to supervise.
I believe yakifanyika things to be alert and attention to both sides and coaches of the club is open, we can witness sweet league more than in the second round of the first sitting ended with Simba summit with 35 points.


