

Early last month documents of the Panama zilizua iliyohanikiza a whole world zilipoibuka iliyojitofautisha scandal saga countries which involve one.
Lundo of 11.5 million documents contain information of more than two hundred thousand company ziliyomo away on the list of the advisory company Mossack Fonseca zinazobainisha owners, with shares and senior leaders of those companies.
Is common in the business system to run a company, outside the country anayotoka the owner but the usual about kisichokuwa documents of the Panama, is the wealth of different leaders in the world ulivyofutikwa usifahamike because zinazotia doubt.
Previously walitajwa few veterans and their brothers but later ikadhihirika that Virgins islands owned by England and Hong Kong vichaka islands is when the vilipo hideouts.
Owning a company outside of the nation is not breaking the law but the company zimetumika for including crime with tax evasion and corruption.
The cover mazimwi of that crime and raised aliyejipa writer fake name "John Joe" aliyeanika those things in public, in the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung early last year about a dirty game that started in 1970.
Later those documents zilisambazwa for 400 journalists through a union of journalists of kipelelezi duniami (ICIJ), at 107 media in 76 countries.
As it was in the old hekaya the Kigiriki Esopo where the cover lililofungiwa mazimwi (Pandora's Box), the first concrete lililodhibitiwa and a woman in the world (Pandora) aliyeumbwa for water and soil, but the cover lilipovunjika liliyamwaga all evil in the world as the documents of the Panama zilivyoibua mazimwi (corruption) from various countries including Argentina, Armenian clubs, Australia, Azerbeijan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Cyprus, Egypt, France, Hong Kong, Iceland, India, Indonesia and Israel.
The other is Italy, Malta, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Europe and America.
The ownership the company out of those countries and the immunity kudhihirishwa their reports and small charge tax umetumiwa badly corruption, for the benefit of the Wanene of those countries.
Mossack Fonseca company who currently manages three hundred thousand inalaumiwa kuzichezea kuwakinga for those documents to its customers, to prevent the introduction of the owners and inventory of conflicting use and the benefits to kuwaneemesha lands illegally so affecting the economy in the world.
Gap between the rich and the poor limeongezeka for appropriate evading taxes needed as the biggest victims had developed countries, zilizokosa yanayokadiriwa revenue to 213 billion US dollars for the month of July alone in the last year.
Mossack Fonseca ilidai being compromised his communications network, but after the documents to start came out ikakana involved them, professional inspecting ukadhihirisha that was ikichezea internet to copy documents with zisizorandana so as to hide the truth.
The secret aliyevujisha said he decided to do so, so that the world ifahamu the truth although until the allegations zidhibitishwe then itakapojulikana ithibati him.
Yanayotajwa names include the UAE President Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, King Salman of Saudi Arabia and the prime minister of Iceland, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson.
Wamo also former leaders including the president of Sudan, Ahmed Al-Mirghani, the past of Quatar Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani.
Wamo ministers also former (Georgia): Bidzina Ivanishvili, (Iraq): Ayaq Allawi, (Jordan): Ali Abu al-Ragheb (Quatar): Jaber Al Thani, (Ukraine): Paylo Lazarenko and (Moldova): Ion Sturza.
Other names popular is the father of the British Prime Minister David Cameron, in-law of China's President Xi Jinping, the child of the prime minister of Malaysia Najib Razak, three children of the prime minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif, Clive Khulubuse Zuma mpwa of President Jacob Zuma of South Africa, the child of the former secretary general of the UN Kojo Annan, Mark Thatcher the child of the former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, the former Prime Minister of Italy Silvio Berlusconi and actors film Jack Chan and Amitabh Bachchan.


